Language/Variables/Utilities/sizeof.adoc, before:

---
title: sizeof()
categories: [ "Variables" ]
subCategories: [ "Utilities" ]
---

= sizeof

// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
The `sizeof` operator returns the number of bytes in a variable type, or the number of bytes occupied by an array.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`sizeof(variable)`


[float]
=== Parameters
`variable`: any variable type or array (e.g. int, float, byte)

[float]
=== Returns
The number of bytes in a variable or bytes occupied in an array. (size_t)

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS

// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄
The `sizeof` operator is useful for dealing with arrays (such as strings) where it is convenient to be able to change the size of the array without breaking other parts of the program.

This program prints out a text string one character at a time. Try changing the text phrase.

[source,arduino]
----
char myStr[] = "this is a test";

void setup() {
  Serial.begin(9600);
}

void loop() {
  for (byte i = 0; i < sizeof(myStr) - 1; i++) {
    Serial.print(i, DEC);
    Serial.print(" = ");
    Serial.write(myStr[i]);
    Serial.println();
  }
  delay(5000);  // slow down the program
}
----
[%hardbreaks]

[float]
=== Notes and Warnings
Note that `sizeof` returns the total number of bytes. So for arrays of larger variable types such as ints, the for loop would look something like this.

[source,arduino]
----
int myValues[] = {123, 456, 789};

// this for loop works correctly with an array of any type or size
for (byte i = 0; i < (sizeof(myValues) / sizeof(myValues[0])); i++) {
  // do something with myValues[i]
}
----

Note that a properly formatted string ends with the NULL symbol, which has ASCII value 0.

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Use standard format for Syntax, Parameters, and Returns sections
I have faithfully followed the standard established by the reference sample. The exception is in documenting the return type, since the reference sample does not provide any guidance on this subject. In this, I attempted to be consistent with the standard established for documenting parameter types ("Allowed data types:" for parameters, "Data type:" for return type).

Language/Variables/Utilities/sizeof.adoc, after:

---
title: sizeof()
categories: [ "Variables" ]
subCategories: [ "Utilities" ]
---

= sizeof

// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
The `sizeof` operator returns the number of bytes in a variable type, or the number of bytes occupied by an array.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`sizeof(variable)`


[float]
=== Parameters
`variable`: The thing to get the size of. Allowed data types: any variable type or array (e.g. `int`, `float`, `byte`).


[float]
=== Returns
The number of bytes in a variable or bytes occupied in an array. Data type: `size_t`.

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS

// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄
The `sizeof` operator is useful for dealing with arrays (such as strings) where it is convenient to be able to change the size of the array without breaking other parts of the program.

This program prints out a text string one character at a time. Try changing the text phrase.

[source,arduino]
----
char myStr[] = "this is a test";

void setup() {
  Serial.begin(9600);
}

void loop() {
  for (byte i = 0; i < sizeof(myStr) - 1; i++) {
    Serial.print(i, DEC);
    Serial.print(" = ");
    Serial.write(myStr[i]);
    Serial.println();
  }
  delay(5000);  // slow down the program
}
----
[%hardbreaks]

[float]
=== Notes and Warnings
Note that `sizeof` returns the total number of bytes. So for arrays of larger variable types such as ints, the for loop would look something like this.

[source,arduino]
----
int myValues[] = {123, 456, 789};

// this for loop works correctly with an array of any type or size
for (byte i = 0; i < (sizeof(myValues) / sizeof(myValues[0])); i++) {
  // do something with myValues[i]
}
----

Note that a properly formatted string ends with the NULL symbol, which has ASCII value 0.

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS
