Language/Variables/Data Types/bool.adoc, before:

---
title: bool
categories: [ "Variables" ]
subCategories: [ "Data Types" ]
---





= bool


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
A `bool` holds one of two values, `true` or `false`. (Each `bool` variable occupies one byte of memory.)


[%hardbreaks]

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄
This code shows how to use the `bool` datatype.

[source,arduino]
----
int LEDpin = 5;       // LED on pin 5
int switchPin = 13;   // momentary switch on 13, other side connected to ground

bool running = false;

void setup()
{
  pinMode(LEDpin, OUTPUT);
  pinMode(switchPin, INPUT);
  digitalWrite(switchPin, HIGH);      // turn on pullup resistor
}

void loop()
{
  if (digitalRead(switchPin) == LOW)
  {  // switch is pressed - pullup keeps pin high normally
    delay(100);                        // delay to debounce switch
    running = !running;                // toggle running variable
    digitalWrite(LEDpin, running);     // indicate via LED
  }
}
----

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION STARTS
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="language"]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../../../variables/constants/constants[constants]

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Document syntax for types where missing
Some of the type reference pages had syntax documentation, others didn't.

Language/Variables/Data Types/bool.adoc, after:

---
title: bool
categories: [ "Variables" ]
subCategories: [ "Data Types" ]
---





= bool


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
A `bool` holds one of two values, `true` or `false`. (Each `bool` variable occupies one byte of memory.)


[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`bool var = val;`


[float]
=== Parameters
`var`: variable name +
`val`: the value to assign to that variable

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄
This code shows how to use the `bool` datatype.

[source,arduino]
----
int LEDpin = 5;       // LED on pin 5
int switchPin = 13;   // momentary switch on 13, other side connected to ground

bool running = false;

void setup()
{
  pinMode(LEDpin, OUTPUT);
  pinMode(switchPin, INPUT);
  digitalWrite(switchPin, HIGH);      // turn on pullup resistor
}

void loop()
{
  if (digitalRead(switchPin) == LOW)
  {  // switch is pressed - pullup keeps pin high normally
    delay(100);                        // delay to debounce switch
    running = !running;                // toggle running variable
    digitalWrite(LEDpin, running);     // indicate via LED
  }
}
----

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION STARTS
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="language"]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../../../variables/constants/constants[constants]

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS
