Language/Functions/Zero, Due, MKR Family/analogReadResolution.adoc, before:

---
title: analogReadResolution()
categories: [ "Functions" ]
subCategories: [ "Zero, Due & MKR Family" ]
---




= analogReadResolution()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
analogReadResolution() is an extension of the Analog API for the Arduino Due, Zero and MKR Family.

Sets the size (in bits) of the value returned by `analogRead()`. It defaults to 10 bits (returns values between 0-1023) for backward compatibility with AVR based boards.

The *Due, Zero and MKR Family* boards have 12-bit ADC capabilities that can be accessed by changing the resolution to 12. This will return values from `analogRead()` between 0 and 4095.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`analogReadResolution(bits)`


[float]
=== Parameters
`bits`: determines the resolution (in bits) of the value returned by the `analogRead()` function. You can set this between 1 and 32. You can set resolutions higher than 12 but values returned by `analogRead()` will suffer approximation. See the note below for details.


[float]
=== Returns
Nothing

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄
The code shows how to use ADC with different resolutions.

[source,arduino]
----
void setup() {
  // open a serial connection
  Serial.begin(9600);
}

void loop() {
  // read the input on A0 at default resolution (10 bits)
  // and send it out the serial connection
  analogReadResolution(10);
  Serial.print("ADC 10-bit (default) : ");
  Serial.print(analogRead(A0));

  // change the resolution to 12 bits and read A0
  analogReadResolution(12);
  Serial.print(", 12-bit : ");
  Serial.print(analogRead(A0));

  // change the resolution to 16 bits and read A0
  analogReadResolution(16);
  Serial.print(", 16-bit : ");
  Serial.print(analogRead(A0));

  // change the resolution to 8 bits and read A0
  analogReadResolution(8);
  Serial.print(", 8-bit : ");
  Serial.println(analogRead(A0));

  // a little delay to not hog Serial Monitor
  delay(100);
}
----
[%hardbreaks]

[float]
=== Notes and Warnings
If you set the `analogReadResolution()` value to a value higher than your board's capabilities, the Arduino will only report back at its highest resolution, padding the extra bits with zeros.

For example: using the Due with `analogReadResolution(16)` will give you an approximated 16-bit number with the first 12 bits containing the real ADC reading and the last 4 bits *padded with zeros*.

If you set the `analogReadResolution()` value to a value lower than your board's capabilities, the extra least significant bits read from the ADC will be *discarded*.

Using a 16 bit resolution (or any resolution *higher* than actual hardware capabilities) allows you to write sketches that automatically handle devices with a higher resolution ADC when these become available on future boards without changing a line of code.

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="example"]
* #EXAMPLE# http://arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/AnalogInputPins[Description of the analog input pins^]

[role="language"]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../../analog-io/analogread[analogRead()]

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Include Nano 33 and Portenta (#791)
* Include Nano 33 and Portenta

These boards are lacking in this piece of documentation, possibly elsewhere

* Update Language/Functions/Zero, Due, MKR Family/analogReadResolution.adoc

Co-authored-by: per1234 <accounts@perglass.com>

* Update Language/Functions/Zero, Due, MKR Family/analogReadResolution.adoc

Yes!
I just discovered that such method is not available and throws an error.
I believe it should be added to cores which do not support multiple resolutions, just in case a user obtains a sketch made on an *arm* board and the compilation error makes no sense to them.
The method could be just a sinkhole but would prevent the compile error :)

Co-authored-by: per1234 <accounts@perglass.com>

* changed subcategory to "Analog I/O"

* Sub-category changed back to  "Zero, Due & MKR Family"

In order to submit a new PR with just the category change

Co-authored-by: per1234 <accounts@perglass.com>

Language/Functions/Zero, Due, MKR Family/analogReadResolution.adoc, after:

---
title: analogReadResolution()
categories: [ "Functions" ]
subCategories: [ "Zero, Due & MKR Family" ]
---




= analogReadResolution()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
analogReadResolution() is an extension of the Analog API for the Zero, Due, MKR family, Nano 33 (BLE and IoT) and Portenta.

Sets the size (in bits) of the value returned by `analogRead()`. It defaults to 10 bits (returns values between 0-1023) for backward compatibility with AVR based boards.

The *Zero, Due, MKR family and Nano 33 (BLE and IoT)* boards have 12-bit ADC capabilities that can be accessed by changing the resolution to 12. This will return values from `analogRead()` between 0 and 4095. +
The *Portenta H7* has a 16 bit ADC, which will allow values between 0 and 65535.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`analogReadResolution(bits)`


[float]
=== Parameters
`bits`: determines the resolution (in bits) of the value returned by the `analogRead()` function. You can set this between 1 and 32. You can set resolutions higher than the supported 12 or 16 bits, but values returned by `analogRead()` will suffer approximation. See the note below for details.


[float]
=== Returns
Nothing

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄
The code shows how to use ADC with different resolutions.

[source,arduino]
----
void setup() {
  // open a serial connection
  Serial.begin(9600);
}

void loop() {
  // read the input on A0 at default resolution (10 bits)
  // and send it out the serial connection
  analogReadResolution(10);
  Serial.print("ADC 10-bit (default) : ");
  Serial.print(analogRead(A0));

  // change the resolution to 12 bits and read A0
  analogReadResolution(12);
  Serial.print(", 12-bit : ");
  Serial.print(analogRead(A0));

  // change the resolution to 16 bits and read A0
  analogReadResolution(16);
  Serial.print(", 16-bit : ");
  Serial.print(analogRead(A0));

  // change the resolution to 8 bits and read A0
  analogReadResolution(8);
  Serial.print(", 8-bit : ");
  Serial.println(analogRead(A0));

  // a little delay to not hog Serial Monitor
  delay(100);
}
----
[%hardbreaks]

[float]
=== Notes and Warnings
If you set the `analogReadResolution()` value to a value higher than your board's capabilities, the Arduino will only report back at its highest resolution, padding the extra bits with zeros.

For example: using the Due with `analogReadResolution(16)` will give you an approximated 16-bit number with the first 12 bits containing the real ADC reading and the last 4 bits *padded with zeros*.

If you set the `analogReadResolution()` value to a value lower than your board's capabilities, the extra least significant bits read from the ADC will be *discarded*.

Using a 16 bit resolution (or any resolution *higher* than actual hardware capabilities) allows you to write sketches that automatically handle devices with a higher resolution ADC when these become available on future boards without changing a line of code.

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="example"]
* #EXAMPLE# http://arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/AnalogInputPins[Description of the analog input pins^]

[role="language"]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../../analog-io/analogread[analogRead()]

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS
