Language/Structure/Control Structure/switchCase.adoc, before:

---
title: switch...case
categories: [ "Structure" ]
subCategories: [ "Control Structure" ]
---





= switch...case statement


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Like link:../if[if] statements, link:../switchcase[switch case] controls the flow of programs by allowing programmers to specify different code that should be executed in various conditions. In particular, a switch statement compares the value of a variable to the values specified in case statements. When a case statement is found whose value matches that of the variable, the code in that case statement is run.
[%hardbreaks]

The link:../break[break] keyword exits the switch statement, and is typically used at the end of each case. Without a break statement, the switch statement will continue executing the following expressions ("falling-through") until a break, or the end of the switch statement is reached.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
[source,arduino]
----
switch (var) {
  case label1:
    // statements
    break;
  case label2:
    // statements
    break;
  default:
    // statements
    break;
}
----


[float]
=== Parameters
`var`: a variable whose value to compare with various cases. Allowed data types: `int`, `char`. +
`label1`, `label2`: constants. Allowed data types: `int`, `char`.


[float]
=== Returns
Nothing

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code

[source,arduino]
----
switch (var) {
  case 1:
    //do something when var equals 1
    break;
  case 2:
    //do something when var equals 2
    break;
  default:
    // if nothing else matches, do the default
    // default is optional
    break;
}

----
[%hardbreaks]

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS




// SEE ALSO SECTIN BEGINS
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also
[role="language"]

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Update Switch Case
Remove limitation that only char/int can be used (any integer is allowed)

Language/Structure/Control Structure/switchCase.adoc, after:

---
title: switch...case
categories: [ "Structure" ]
subCategories: [ "Control Structure" ]
---





= switch...case statement


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Like link:../if[if] statements, link:../switchcase[switch case] controls the flow of programs by allowing programmers to specify different code that should be executed in various conditions. In particular, a switch statement compares the value of a variable to the values specified in case statements. When a case statement is found whose value matches that of the variable, the code in that case statement is run.
[%hardbreaks]

The link:../break[break] keyword exits the switch statement, and is typically used at the end of each case. Without a break statement, the switch statement will continue executing the following expressions ("falling-through") until a break, or the end of the switch statement is reached.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
[source,arduino]
----
switch (var) {
  case label1:
    // statements
    break;
  case label2:
    // statements
    break;
  default:
    // statements
    break;
}
----


[float]
=== Parameters
`var`: an *integer* variable whose value to compare with various cases. Any integer data type is allowed*, such as `byte`, `char`, `int`, `long`.
`label1`, `label2`: constants. Any integer data type here is also allowed.

*You can also use the `bool` data type when you just two switch cases.

[float]
=== Returns
Nothing

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code

[source,arduino]
----
switch (var) {
  case 1:
    //do something when var equals 1
    break;
  case 2:
    //do something when var equals 2
    break;
  default:
    // if nothing else matches, do the default
    // default is optional
    break;
}

----
[%hardbreaks]

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS




// SEE ALSO SECTIN BEGINS
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also
[role="language"]

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS
