Language/Functions/Math/constrain.adoc, before:

---
title: constrain()
categories: [ "Functions" ]
subCategories: [ "Math" ]
---





= constrain(x, a, b)


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Constrains a number to be within a range.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`constrain(x, a, b)`


[float]
=== Parameters
`x`: the number to constrain, all data types
`a`: the lower end of the range, all data types
`b`: the upper end of the range, all data types

[float]
=== Returns
x: if x is between a and b

a: if x is less than a

b: if x is greater than b

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄
The code limits the sensor values to between 10 to 150.

[source,arduino]
----
sensVal = constrain(sensVal, 10, 150);    // limits range of sensor values to between 10 and 150
----

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Add warnings about doing operations inside macro parameters
The way these macros are written, causes operations done within the parameters to be repeated when the macro runs.

Although warnings were already added to max() and min(), they were still missing from constrain() and sq().

Language/Functions/Math/constrain.adoc, after:

---
title: constrain()
categories: [ "Functions" ]
subCategories: [ "Math" ]
---





= constrain(x, a, b)


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Constrains a number to be within a range.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`constrain(x, a, b)`


[float]
=== Parameters
`x`: the number to constrain, all data types
`a`: the lower end of the range, all data types
`b`: the upper end of the range, all data types

[float]
=== Returns
x: if x is between a and b

a: if x is less than a

b: if x is greater than b

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄
The code limits the sensor values to between 10 to 150.

[source,arduino]
----
sensVal = constrain(sensVal, 10, 150);    // limits range of sensor values to between 10 and 150
----

[float]
=== Notes and Warnings
Because of the way the `constrain()` function is implemented, avoid using other functions inside the brackets, it may lead to incorrect results.

This code will yield incorrect results:
[source,arduino]
----
int constrainedInput = constrain(Serial.parseInt(), minimumValue, maximumValue);   // avoid this
----

Use this instead:
[source,arduino]
----
int input = Serial.parseInt();  // keep other operations outside the constrain function
int constrainedInput = constrain(input, minimumValue, maximumValue);
----
[%hardbreaks]

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS
