Language/Functions/USB (Leonardo and DUE only)/Keyboard.adoc, before:

---
title: Keyboard

---

:source-highlighter: pygments
:pygments-style: arduino


= Keyboard


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
The keyboard functions enable a Leonardo, Micro, or Due to send keystrokes to an attached computer.
[%hardbreaks]
*Note: Not every possible ASCII character, particularly the non-printing ones, can be sent with the Keyboard library.* +
The library supports the use of modifier keys. Modifier keys change the behavior of another key when pressed simultaneously. link:..//Keyboard/keyboardModifiers[See here] for additional information on supported keys and their use.

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS


// FUNCTIONS SECTION STARTS
[#functions]
--

'''

[float]
=== Functions
link:..//Keyboard/keyboardBegin[Keyboard.begin()] +
link:..//Keyboard/keyboardEnd[Keyboard.end()] +
link:..//Keyboard/keyboardPress[Keyboard.press()] +
link:..//Keyboard/keyboardPrint[Keyboard.print()] +
link:..//Keyboard/keyboardPrintln[Keyboard.println()] +
link:..//Keyboard/keyboardRelease[Keyboard.release()] +
link:..//Keyboard/keyboardReleaseAll[Keyboard.releaseAll()] +
link:..//Keyboard/keyboardWrite[Keyboard.write()]

'''

--
// FUNCTIONS SECTION ENDS


// SEEALSO SECTION STARTS
[#seealso]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="example"]
* #EXAMPLE# http://www.arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/KeyboardAndMouseControl[KeyboardAndMouseControl]: Demonstrates the Mouse and Keyboard commands in one program.
* #EXAMPLE# http://www.arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/KeyboardMessage[KeyboardMessage]: Sends a text string when a button is pressed.
* #EXAMPLE# http://www.arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/KeyboardLogout[KeyboardLogout]: Logs out the current user with key commands
* #EXAMPLE# http://www.arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/KeyboardSerial[KeyboardSerial]: Reads a byte from the serial port, and sends back a keystroke.
* #EXAMPLE# http://www.arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/KeyboardReprogram[KeyboardReprogram]: opens a new window in the Arduino IDE and reprograms the board with a simple blink program
* #EXAMPLE# http://www.arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/ButtonMouseControl[ButtonMouseControl]: Control cursor movement with 5 pushbuttons.
* #EXAMPLE# http://www.arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/JoystickMouseControl[JoystickMouseControl]: Controls a computer's cursor movement with a Joystick when a button is pressed.

--
// SEEALSO SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Add Note and Warning Keyboard.adoc and Mouse.adoc

Language/Functions/USB (Leonardo and DUE only)/Keyboard.adoc, after:

---
title: Keyboard

---

:source-highlighter: pygments
:pygments-style: arduino


= Keyboard


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
The keyboard functions enable a Leonardo, Micro, or Due to send keystrokes to an attached computer.
[%hardbreaks]
*Note: Not every possible ASCII character, particularly the non-printing ones, can be sent with the Keyboard library.* +
The library supports the use of modifier keys. Modifier keys change the behavior of another key when pressed simultaneously. link:..//Keyboard/keyboardModifiers[See here] for additional information on supported keys and their use.

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS

[float]
=== Notes and Warnings
These core libraries allow a 32u4 based boards or Due and Zero board to appear as a native Mouse and/or Keyboard to a connected computer.
[%hardbreaks]
*A word of caution on using the Mouse and Keyboard libraries*: if the Mouse or Keyboard library is constantly running, it will be difficult to program your board. Functions such as `Mouse.move()` and `Keyboard.print()` will move your cursor or send keystrokes to a connected computer and should only be called when you are ready to handle them. It is recommended to use a control system to turn this functionality on, like a physical switch or only responding to specific input you can control.
[%hardbreaks]
When using the Mouse or Keyboard library, it may be best to test your output first using `Serial.print()`. This way, you can be sure you know what values are being reported. Refer to the Mouse and Keyboard examples for some ways to handle this.
[%hardbreaks]
// FUNCTIONS SECTION STARTS
[#functions]
--

// FUNCTIONS SECTION STARTS
[#functions]
--

'''

[float]
=== Functions
link:..//Keyboard/keyboardBegin[Keyboard.begin()] +
link:..//Keyboard/keyboardEnd[Keyboard.end()] +
link:..//Keyboard/keyboardPress[Keyboard.press()] +
link:..//Keyboard/keyboardPrint[Keyboard.print()] +
link:..//Keyboard/keyboardPrintln[Keyboard.println()] +
link:..//Keyboard/keyboardRelease[Keyboard.release()] +
link:..//Keyboard/keyboardReleaseAll[Keyboard.releaseAll()] +
link:..//Keyboard/keyboardWrite[Keyboard.write()]

'''

--
// FUNCTIONS SECTION ENDS


// SEEALSO SECTION STARTS
[#seealso]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="example"]
* #EXAMPLE# http://www.arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/KeyboardAndMouseControl[KeyboardAndMouseControl]: Demonstrates the Mouse and Keyboard commands in one program.
* #EXAMPLE# http://www.arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/KeyboardMessage[KeyboardMessage]: Sends a text string when a button is pressed.
* #EXAMPLE# http://www.arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/KeyboardLogout[KeyboardLogout]: Logs out the current user with key commands
* #EXAMPLE# http://www.arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/KeyboardSerial[KeyboardSerial]: Reads a byte from the serial port, and sends back a keystroke.
* #EXAMPLE# http://www.arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/KeyboardReprogram[KeyboardReprogram]: opens a new window in the Arduino IDE and reprograms the board with a simple blink program
* #EXAMPLE# http://www.arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/ButtonMouseControl[ButtonMouseControl]: Control cursor movement with 5 pushbuttons.
* #EXAMPLE# http://www.arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/JoystickMouseControl[JoystickMouseControl]: Controls a computer's cursor movement with a Joystick when a button is pressed.

--
// SEEALSO SECTION ENDS
