Language/Variables/Data Types/String/Functions/remove.adoc, before:

---
title: "remove()"
categories: [ "Data Types" ]
subCategories: [ "StringObject Function" ]
---





= remove()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Modify in place a String removing chars from the provided index to the end of the String or from the provided index to index plus count.

[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`myString.remove(index)` +
`myString.remove(index, count)`

[float]
=== Parameters
`myString`: a variable of type String

`index`: a variable of type unsigned int

`count`: a variable of type unsigned int


[float]
=== Returns
None

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS


// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄
[source,arduino]
----
String greeting = "hello";
greeting.remove(2, 2);  // greeting now contains "heo"
----
[%hardbreaks]
--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="example"]
* #EXAMPLE# https://www.arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/BuiltInExamples#strings[String Tutorials^]
--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Use standard format for Syntax, Parameters, and Returns sections
I have faithfully followed the standard established by the reference sample. The exception is in documenting the return type, since the reference sample does not provide any guidance on this subject. In this, I attempted to be consistent with the standard established for documenting parameter types ("Allowed data types:" for parameters, "Data type:" for return type).

Language/Variables/Data Types/String/Functions/remove.adoc, after:

---
title: "remove()"
categories: [ "Data Types" ]
subCategories: [ "StringObject Function" ]
---





= remove()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Modify in place a String removing chars from the provided index to the end of the String or from the provided index to index plus count.

[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`myString.remove(index)` +
`myString.remove(index, count)`


[float]
=== Parameters
`myString`: a variable of type `String`. +
`index`: The position at which to start the remove process (zero indexed). Allowed data types: `unsigned int`. +
`count`: The number of characters to remove. Allowed data types: `unsigned int`.


[float]
=== Returns
Nothing

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS


// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄
[source,arduino]
----
String greeting = "hello";
greeting.remove(2, 2);  // greeting now contains "heo"
----
[%hardbreaks]
--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="example"]
* #EXAMPLE# https://www.arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/BuiltInExamples#strings[String Tutorials^]
--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS
