Language/Functions/USB/Keyboard/keyboardModifiers.adoc, before:

---
title: Keyboard Modifiers and Special Keys
---




= Keyboard modifiers and special keys


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
When given a printable ASCII character as an argument, the functions `Keyboard.write()`, `Keyboard.press()` and `Keyboard.release()` simulate actuations on the corresponding keys. These functions can also handle ASCII characters that require pressing a key in combination with Shift or, on international keyboards, AltGr. For example:
[source,arduino]
----
Keyboard.write('a');  // press and release the 'A' key
Keyboard.write('A');  // press Shift and 'A', then release both
----
A typical keyboard, however, has many keys that do not match a printable ASCII character. In order to simulate those keys, the library provides a set of macros that can be passed as arguments to `Keyboard.write()`, `Keyboard.press()` and `Keyboard.release()`. For example, the key combination Shift-F2 can be generated by:
[source,arduino]
----
Keyboard.press(KEY_LEFT_SHIFT);  // press and hold Shift
Keyboard.press(KEY_F2);          // press and hold F2
Keyboard.releaseAll();           // release both
----
Note that, in order to press multiple keys simultaneously, one has to use link:../keyboardpress[`Keyboard.press()`] rather than link:../keyboardwrite[`Keyboard.write()`], as the latter just “hits” the keys (it presses and immediate releases them).
[%hardbreaks]
The available macros are listed below:

[float]
=== Keyboard modifiers
These are eight keys within the alphanumeric cluster of the keyboard that are meant to modify the normal action of another key when the two are pressed in combination. Whereas Shift and AltGr are used to access extra characters, the others are mostly used for keyboard shortcuts.

|===
|Key	|Hexadecimal value	|Decimal value

|KEY_LEFT_CTRL  |0x80 |128
|KEY_LEFT_SHIFT |0x81 |129
|KEY_LEFT_ALT   |0x82 |130
|KEY_LEFT_GUI   |0x83 |131
|KEY_RIGHT_CTRL |0x84 |132
|KEY_RIGHT_SHIFT |0x85 |133
|KEY_RIGHT_ALT  |0x86 |134
|KEY_RIGHT_GUI  |0x87 |135
|===

[float]
=== Special keys
These are all the keys that do not match a printable ASCII character and are not modifiers, including all keys outside the alphanumeric cluster.

[float]
==== Within the alphanumeric cluster

|===
|Key	|Hexadecimal value	|Decimal value

|KEY_TAB        |0xB3 |179
|KEY_CAPS_LOCK  |0xC1 |193
|KEY_BACKSPACE  |0xB2 |178
|KEY_RETURN     |0xB0 |176
|===

[float]
==== Navigation cluster

|===
|Key	|Hexadecimal value	|Decimal value

|KEY_INSERT     |0xD1 |209
|KEY_DELETE     |0xD4 |212
|KEY_HOME       |0xD2 |210
|KEY_END        |0xD5 |213
|KEY_PAGE_UP    |0xD3 |211
|KEY_PAGE_DOWN  |0xD6 |214
|KEY_UP_ARROW   |0xDA |218
|KEY_DOWN_ARROW |0xD9 |217
|KEY_LEFT_ARROW |0xD8 |216
|KEY_RIGHT_ARROW |0xD7 |215
|===

[float]
==== Escape and function keys
The library can simulate function keys up to F24, even though few keyboards have the F13… F24 keys.

|===
|Key	|Hexadecimal value	|Decimal value

|KEY_ESC        |0xB1 |177
|KEY_F1         |0xC2 |194
|KEY_F2         |0xC3 |195
|KEY_F3         |0xC4 |196
|KEY_F4         |0xC5 |197
|KEY_F5         |0xC6 |198
|KEY_F6         |0xC7 |199
|KEY_F7         |0xC8 |200
|KEY_F8         |0xC9 |201
|KEY_F9         |0xCA |202
|KEY_F10        |0xCB |203
|KEY_F11        |0xCC |204
|KEY_F12        |0xCD |205
|KEY_F13        |0xF0 |240
|KEY_F14        |0xF1 |241
|KEY_F15        |0xF2 |242
|KEY_F16        |0xF3 |243
|KEY_F17        |0xF4 |244
|KEY_F18        |0xF5 |245
|KEY_F19        |0xF6 |246
|KEY_F20        |0xF7 |247
|KEY_F21        |0xF8 |248
|KEY_F22        |0xF9 |249
|KEY_F23        |0xFA |250
|KEY_F24        |0xFB |251
|===

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

keyboardModifiers: add notes to ambiguous keys
In Language/Functions/USB/Keyboard/keyboardModifiers.adoc, add
explanatory notes for keys with ambiguous names:

- KEY_{LEFT,RIGHT}_GUI are the OS logo keys, "command" on Mac
- KEY_{LEFT,RIGHT}_ALT is "option" on Mac
- KEY_RIGHT_ALT can be labeled "AltGr".

Language/Functions/USB/Keyboard/keyboardModifiers.adoc, after:

---
title: Keyboard Modifiers and Special Keys
---




= Keyboard modifiers and special keys


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
When given a printable ASCII character as an argument, the functions `Keyboard.write()`, `Keyboard.press()` and `Keyboard.release()` simulate actuations on the corresponding keys. These functions can also handle ASCII characters that require pressing a key in combination with Shift or, on international keyboards, AltGr. For example:
[source,arduino]
----
Keyboard.write('a');  // press and release the 'A' key
Keyboard.write('A');  // press Shift and 'A', then release both
----
A typical keyboard, however, has many keys that do not match a printable ASCII character. In order to simulate those keys, the library provides a set of macros that can be passed as arguments to `Keyboard.write()`, `Keyboard.press()` and `Keyboard.release()`. For example, the key combination Shift-F2 can be generated by:
[source,arduino]
----
Keyboard.press(KEY_LEFT_SHIFT);  // press and hold Shift
Keyboard.press(KEY_F2);          // press and hold F2
Keyboard.releaseAll();           // release both
----
Note that, in order to press multiple keys simultaneously, one has to use link:../keyboardpress[`Keyboard.press()`] rather than link:../keyboardwrite[`Keyboard.write()`], as the latter just “hits” the keys (it presses and immediate releases them).
[%hardbreaks]
The available macros are listed below:

[float]
=== Keyboard modifiers
These are eight keys within the alphanumeric cluster of the keyboard that are meant to modify the normal action of another key when the two are pressed in combination. Whereas Shift and AltGr are used to access extra characters, the others are mostly used for keyboard shortcuts.

|===
|Key	|Hexadecimal value	|Decimal value	|Notes

|KEY_LEFT_CTRL  |0x80 |128 |
|KEY_LEFT_SHIFT |0x81 |129 |
|KEY_LEFT_ALT   |0x82 |130 |option (⌥) on Mac
|KEY_LEFT_GUI   |0x83 |131 |OS logo, command (⌘) on Mac
|KEY_RIGHT_CTRL |0x84 |132 |
|KEY_RIGHT_SHIFT |0x85 |133 |
|KEY_RIGHT_ALT  |0x86 |134 |also AltGr, option (⌥) on Mac
|KEY_RIGHT_GUI  |0x87 |135 |OS logo, command (⌘) on Mac
|===

[float]
=== Special keys
These are all the keys that do not match a printable ASCII character and are not modifiers, including all keys outside the alphanumeric cluster.

[float]
==== Within the alphanumeric cluster

|===
|Key	|Hexadecimal value	|Decimal value

|KEY_TAB        |0xB3 |179
|KEY_CAPS_LOCK  |0xC1 |193
|KEY_BACKSPACE  |0xB2 |178
|KEY_RETURN     |0xB0 |176
|===

[float]
==== Navigation cluster

|===
|Key	|Hexadecimal value	|Decimal value

|KEY_INSERT     |0xD1 |209
|KEY_DELETE     |0xD4 |212
|KEY_HOME       |0xD2 |210
|KEY_END        |0xD5 |213
|KEY_PAGE_UP    |0xD3 |211
|KEY_PAGE_DOWN  |0xD6 |214
|KEY_UP_ARROW   |0xDA |218
|KEY_DOWN_ARROW |0xD9 |217
|KEY_LEFT_ARROW |0xD8 |216
|KEY_RIGHT_ARROW |0xD7 |215
|===

[float]
==== Escape and function keys
The library can simulate function keys up to F24, even though few keyboards have the F13… F24 keys.

|===
|Key	|Hexadecimal value	|Decimal value

|KEY_ESC        |0xB1 |177
|KEY_F1         |0xC2 |194
|KEY_F2         |0xC3 |195
|KEY_F3         |0xC4 |196
|KEY_F4         |0xC5 |197
|KEY_F5         |0xC6 |198
|KEY_F6         |0xC7 |199
|KEY_F7         |0xC8 |200
|KEY_F8         |0xC9 |201
|KEY_F9         |0xCA |202
|KEY_F10        |0xCB |203
|KEY_F11        |0xCC |204
|KEY_F12        |0xCD |205
|KEY_F13        |0xF0 |240
|KEY_F14        |0xF1 |241
|KEY_F15        |0xF2 |242
|KEY_F16        |0xF3 |243
|KEY_F17        |0xF4 |244
|KEY_F18        |0xF5 |245
|KEY_F19        |0xF6 |246
|KEY_F20        |0xF7 |247
|KEY_F21        |0xF8 |248
|KEY_F22        |0xF9 |249
|KEY_F23        |0xFA |250
|KEY_F24        |0xFB |251
|===

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS
