Language/Functions/USB/Keyboard/keyboardBegin.adoc, before:

---
title: Keyboard.begin()
---




= Keyboard.begin()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
When used with a Leonardo or Due board, `Keyboard.begin()` starts emulating a keyboard connected to a computer. To end control, use link:../keyboardend[Keyboard.end()].
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`Keyboard.begin()`


[float]
=== Parameters
None


[float]
=== Returns
Nothing

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄


[source,arduino]
----
#include <Keyboard.h>

void setup() {
  // make pin 2 an input and turn on the
  // pullup resistor so it goes high unless
  // connected to ground:
  pinMode(2, INPUT_PULLUP);
  Keyboard.begin();
}

void loop() {
  //if the button is pressed
  if (digitalRead(2) == LOW) {
    //Send the message
    Keyboard.print("Hello!");
  }
}
----

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Document the layout parameter to Keyboard.begin()

Language/Functions/USB/Keyboard/keyboardBegin.adoc, after:

---
title: Keyboard.begin()
---




= Keyboard.begin()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
When used with a Leonardo or Due board, `Keyboard.begin()` starts emulating a keyboard connected to a computer. To end control, use link:../keyboardend[Keyboard.end()].
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`Keyboard.begin()` +
`Keyboard.begin(layout)`


[float]
=== Parameters
`layout`: the keyboard layout to use. This parameter is optional and defaults to `KeyboardLayout_en_US`.


[float]
=== Keyboard layouts
Currently, the library supports the following national keyboard layouts:

* `KeyboardLayout_de_DE`: Germany
* `KeyboardLayout_en_US`: USA
* `KeyboardLayout_es_ES`: Spain
* `KeyboardLayout_fr_FR`: France
* `KeyboardLayout_it_IT`: Italy

Custom layouts can be created by copying and modifying an existing layout. See the instructions in the file KeyboardLayout.h.


[float]
=== Returns
Nothing

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄


[source,arduino]
----
#include <Keyboard.h>

void setup() {
  // make pin 2 an input and turn on the
  // pullup resistor so it goes high unless
  // connected to ground:
  pinMode(2, INPUT_PULLUP);
  Keyboard.begin();
}

void loop() {
  //if the button is pressed
  if (digitalRead(2) == LOW) {
    //Send the message
    Keyboard.print("Hello!");
  }
}
----

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS
