Language/Functions/USB/Keyboard/keyboardPrintln.adoc, before:

---
title: Keyboard.println()
---




= Keyboard.println()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Sends one or more keystrokes to a connected computer, followed by a newline and carriage return.

`Keyboard.println()` must be called after initiating link:../keyboardbegin[Keyboard.begin()].
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`Keyboard.println()` +
`Keyboard.println(character)` +
`Keyboard.println(characters)`


[float]
=== Parameters
`character`: a char or int to be sent to the computer as a keystroke, followed by newline and carriage return. +
`characters`: a string to be sent to the computer as keystrokes, followed by a newline and carriage return.


[float]
=== Returns
Number of keystrokes sent. Data type: `size_t`.

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS


// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄


[source,arduino]
----
#include <Keyboard.h>

void setup() {
  // make pin 2 an input and turn on the
  // pullup resistor so it goes high unless
  // connected to ground:
  pinMode(2, INPUT_PULLUP);
  Keyboard.begin();
}

void loop() {
  //if the button is pressed
  if (digitalRead(2) == LOW) {
    //Send the message
    Keyboard.println("Hello!");
  }
}
----
[%hardbreaks]

[float]
=== Notes and Warnings
When you use the Keyboard.println() command, the Arduino takes over your keyboard! Make sure you have control before you use the command. A pushbutton to toggle the keyboard control state is effective.

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Clarify the end of lines sent by Keyboard.println
There is no such thing as the "newline" or "carriage return" keys.
Instead, Keyboard.println() hits the Return key, more commonly known as
the Enter key.

Language/Functions/USB/Keyboard/keyboardPrintln.adoc, after:

---
title: Keyboard.println()
---




= Keyboard.println()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Sends one or more keystrokes to a connected computer, followed by a keystroke on the Enter key.

`Keyboard.println()` must be called after initiating link:../keyboardbegin[Keyboard.begin()].
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`Keyboard.println()` +
`Keyboard.println(character)` +
`Keyboard.println(characters)`


[float]
=== Parameters
`character`: a char or int to be sent to the computer as a keystroke, followed by Enter. +
`characters`: a string to be sent to the computer as keystrokes, followed by Enter.


[float]
=== Returns
Number of keystrokes sent. Data type: `size_t`.

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS


// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄


[source,arduino]
----
#include <Keyboard.h>

void setup() {
  // make pin 2 an input and turn on the
  // pullup resistor so it goes high unless
  // connected to ground:
  pinMode(2, INPUT_PULLUP);
  Keyboard.begin();
}

void loop() {
  //if the button is pressed
  if (digitalRead(2) == LOW) {
    //Send the message
    Keyboard.println("Hello!");
  }
}
----
[%hardbreaks]

[float]
=== Notes and Warnings
When you use the Keyboard.println() command, the Arduino takes over your keyboard! Make sure you have control before you use the command. A pushbutton to toggle the keyboard control state is effective.

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS
