Language/Functions/USB/Keyboard/keyboardPrint.adoc, before:

---
title: Keyboard.print()
---




= Keyboard.print()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Sends a keystroke to a connected computer.

`Keyboard.print()` must be called after initiating link:../keyboardbegin[Keyboard.begin()].
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`Keyboard.print(character)` +
`Keyboard.print(characters)`


[float]
=== Parameters
`character`: a char or int to be sent to the computer as a keystroke. +
`characters`: a string to be sent to the computer as a keystroke.


[float]
=== Returns
Number of bytes sent. Data type: `size_t`.

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄


[source,arduino]
----
#include <Keyboard.h>

void setup() {
  // make pin 2 an input and turn on the
  // pullup resistor so it goes high unless
  // connected to ground:
  pinMode(2, INPUT_PULLUP);
  Keyboard.begin();
}

void loop() {
  //if the button is pressed
  if (digitalRead(2) == LOW) {
    //Send the message
    Keyboard.print("Hello!");
  }
}
----
[%hardbreaks]

[float]
=== Notes and Warnings
When you use the `Keyboard.print()` command, the Arduino takes over your keyboard! Make sure you have control before you use the command. A pushbutton to toggle the keyboard control state is effective.

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Copy edit keyboardPrint{,ln}.adoc
- a string is sent as multiple keystrokes, not as a single keystroke
- these functions return the number of keystrokes sent, which is far
  smaller than the number of bytes.

Language/Functions/USB/Keyboard/keyboardPrint.adoc, after:

---
title: Keyboard.print()
---




= Keyboard.print()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Sends one or more keystrokes to a connected computer.

`Keyboard.print()` must be called after initiating link:../keyboardbegin[Keyboard.begin()].
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`Keyboard.print(character)` +
`Keyboard.print(characters)`


[float]
=== Parameters
`character`: a char or int to be sent to the computer as a keystroke. +
`characters`: a string to be sent to the computer as keystrokes.


[float]
=== Returns
Number of keystrokes sent. Data type: `size_t`.

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄


[source,arduino]
----
#include <Keyboard.h>

void setup() {
  // make pin 2 an input and turn on the
  // pullup resistor so it goes high unless
  // connected to ground:
  pinMode(2, INPUT_PULLUP);
  Keyboard.begin();
}

void loop() {
  //if the button is pressed
  if (digitalRead(2) == LOW) {
    //Send the message
    Keyboard.print("Hello!");
  }
}
----
[%hardbreaks]

[float]
=== Notes and Warnings
When you use the `Keyboard.print()` command, the Arduino takes over your keyboard! Make sure you have control before you use the command. A pushbutton to toggle the keyboard control state is effective.

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS
