Language/Functions/USB/Keyboard/keyboardPress.adoc, before:

---
title: Keyboard.press()
---




= Keyboard.press()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
When called, `Keyboard.press()` functions as if a key were pressed and held on your keyboard. Useful when using link:../keyboardmodifiers[modifier keys]. To end the key press, use link:../keyboardrelease[Keyboard.release()] or link:../keyboardreleaseall[Keyboard.releaseAll()].

It is necessary to call link:../keyboardbegin[Keyboard.begin()] before using `press()`.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`Keyboard.press()`


[float]
=== Parameters
`char` : the key to press

[float]
=== Returns
`size_t` : number of key presses sent.

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄


[source,arduino]
----
#include <Keyboard.h>

// use this option for OSX:
char ctrlKey = KEY_LEFT_GUI;
// use this option for Windows and Linux:
//  char ctrlKey = KEY_LEFT_CTRL;

void setup() {
  // make pin 2 an input and turn on the
  // pullup resistor so it goes high unless
  // connected to ground:
  pinMode(2, INPUT_PULLUP);
  // initialize control over the keyboard:
  Keyboard.begin();
}

void loop() {
  while (digitalRead(2) == HIGH) {
    // do nothing until pin 2 goes low
    delay(500);
  }
  delay(1000);
  // new document:
  Keyboard.press(ctrlKey);
  Keyboard.press('n');
  delay(100);
  Keyboard.releaseAll();
  // wait for new window to open:
  delay(1000);
}
----

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Use standard format for Syntax, Parameters, and Returns sections
I have faithfully followed the standard established by the reference sample. The exception is in documenting the return type, since the reference sample does not provide any guidance on this subject. In this, I attempted to be consistent with the standard established for documenting parameter types ("Allowed data types:" for parameters, "Data type:" for return type).

Language/Functions/USB/Keyboard/keyboardPress.adoc, after:

---
title: Keyboard.press()
---




= Keyboard.press()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
When called, `Keyboard.press()` functions as if a key were pressed and held on your keyboard. Useful when using link:../keyboardmodifiers[modifier keys]. To end the key press, use link:../keyboardrelease[Keyboard.release()] or link:../keyboardreleaseall[Keyboard.releaseAll()].

It is necessary to call link:../keyboardbegin[Keyboard.begin()] before using `press()`.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`Keyboard.press(key)`


[float]
=== Parameters
`key`: the key to press. Allowed data types: `char`.


[float]
=== Returns
Number of key presses sent. Data type: `size_t`.

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄


[source,arduino]
----
#include <Keyboard.h>

// use this option for OSX:
char ctrlKey = KEY_LEFT_GUI;
// use this option for Windows and Linux:
//  char ctrlKey = KEY_LEFT_CTRL;

void setup() {
  // make pin 2 an input and turn on the
  // pullup resistor so it goes high unless
  // connected to ground:
  pinMode(2, INPUT_PULLUP);
  // initialize control over the keyboard:
  Keyboard.begin();
}

void loop() {
  while (digitalRead(2) == HIGH) {
    // do nothing until pin 2 goes low
    delay(500);
  }
  delay(1000);
  // new document:
  Keyboard.press(ctrlKey);
  Keyboard.press('n');
  delay(100);
  Keyboard.releaseAll();
  // wait for new window to open:
  delay(1000);
}
----

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS
