Language/Functions/External Interrupts/attachInterrupt.adoc, before:

---
title: attachInterrupt()
categories: [ "Functions" ]
subCategories: [ "External Interrupts" ]
---

= attachInterrupt()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
*Digital Pins With Interrupts*

The first parameter to `attachInterrupt()` is an interrupt number. Normally you should use `digitalPinToInterrupt(pin)` to translate the actual digital pin to the specific interrupt number. For example, if you connect to pin 3, use `digitalPinToInterrupt(3)` as the first parameter to `attachInterrupt()`.

[options="header"]
|===================================================
|Board                             |Digital Pins Usable For Interrupts
|Uno, Nano, Mini, other 328-based  |2, 3
|Uno WiFi Rev.2, Nano Every        |all digital pins
|Mega, Mega2560, MegaADK           |2, 3, 18, 19, 20, 21
|Micro, Leonardo, other 32u4-based |0, 1, 2, 3, 7
|Zero                              |all digital pins, except 4
|MKR Family boards                 |0, 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, A1, A2
|Nano 33 IoT                       |2, 3, 9, 10, 11, 13, 15, A5, A7
|Nano 33 BLE, Nano 33 BLE Sense    |all pins
|Due                               |all digital pins
|101                               |all digital pins (Only pins 2, 5, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13 work with *CHANGE*)
|===================================================

[%hardbreaks]

[float]
=== Notes and Warnings

*Note* +
Inside the attached function, `delay()` won't work and the value returned by `millis()` will not increment. Serial data received while in the function may be lost. You should declare as `volatile` any variables that you modify within the attached function. See the section on ISRs below for more information.
[%hardbreaks]

[float]
== Using Interrupts
Interrupts are useful for making things happen automatically in microcontroller programs and can help solve timing problems. Good tasks for using an interrupt may include reading a rotary encoder, or monitoring user input.

If you wanted to ensure that a program always caught the pulses from a rotary encoder, so that it never misses a pulse, it would make it very tricky to write a program to do anything else, because the program would need to constantly poll the sensor lines for the encoder, in order to catch pulses when they occurred. Other sensors have a similar interface dynamic too, such as trying to read a sound sensor that is trying to catch a click, or an infrared slot sensor (photo-interrupter) trying to catch a coin drop. In all of these situations, using an interrupt can free the microcontroller to get some other work done while not missing the input.

[float]
== About Interrupt Service Routines
ISRs are special kinds of functions that have some unique limitations most other functions do not have. An ISR cannot have any parameters, and they shouldn't return anything.

Generally, an ISR should be as short and fast as possible. If your sketch uses multiple ISRs, only one can run at a time, other interrupts will be executed after the current one finishes in an order that depends on the priority they have. `millis()` relies on interrupts to count, so it will never increment inside an ISR. Since `delay()` requires interrupts to work, it will not work if called inside an ISR. `micros()` works initially but will start behaving erratically after 1-2 ms. `delayMicroseconds()` does not use any counter, so it will work as normal.

Typically global variables are used to pass data between an ISR and the main program. To make sure variables shared between an ISR and the main program are updated correctly, declare them as `volatile`.

For more information on interrupts, see http://gammon.com.au/interrupts[Nick Gammon's notes].

[float]
=== Syntax
`attachInterrupt(digitalPinToInterrupt(pin), ISR, mode)` (recommended) +
`attachInterrupt(interrupt, ISR, mode)` (not recommended) +
`attachInterrupt(pin, ISR, mode)` (Not recommended. Additionally, this syntax only works on Arduino SAMD Boards, Uno WiFi Rev2, Due, and 101.)


[float]
=== Parameters
`interrupt`: the number of the interrupt. Allowed data types: `int`. +
`pin`: the Arduino pin number. +
`ISR`: the ISR to call when the interrupt occurs; this function must take no parameters and return nothing. This function is sometimes referred to as an interrupt service routine. +
`mode`: defines when the interrupt should be triggered. Four constants are predefined as valid values: +

* *LOW* to trigger the interrupt whenever the pin is low, +
* *CHANGE* to trigger the interrupt whenever the pin changes value +
* *RISING* to trigger when the pin goes from low to high, +
* *FALLING* for when the pin goes from high to low. +

The Due, Zero and MKR1000 boards allow also: +

* *HIGH* to trigger the interrupt whenever the pin is high.


[float]
=== Returns
Nothing

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS

// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄


[source,arduino]
----
const byte ledPin = 13;
const byte interruptPin = 2;
volatile byte state = LOW;

void setup() {
  pinMode(ledPin, OUTPUT);
  pinMode(interruptPin, INPUT_PULLUP);
  attachInterrupt(digitalPinToInterrupt(interruptPin), blink, CHANGE);
}

void loop() {
  digitalWrite(ledPin, state);
}

void blink() {
  state = !state;
}
----

[float]
=== Interrupt Numbers
Normally you should use `digitalPinToInterrupt(pin)`, rather than place an interrupt number directly into your sketch. The specific pins with interrupts and their mapping to interrupt number varies for each type of board. Direct use of interrupt numbers may seem simple, but it can cause compatibility trouble when your sketch runs on a different board.

However, older sketches often have direct interrupt numbers. Often number 0 (for digital pin 2) or number 1 (for digital pin 3) were used. The table below shows the available interrupt pins on various boards.

Note that in the table below, the interrupt numbers refer to the number to be passed to `attachInterrupt()`. For historical reasons, this numbering does not always correspond directly to the interrupt numbering on the ATmega chip (e.g. int.0 corresponds to INT4 on the ATmega2560 chip).

[options="header"]
|===================================================
|Board                            | int.0 | int.1 | int.2 | int.3 | int.4 | int.5
|Uno, Ethernet                    | 2 | 3 | | | |
|Mega2560                         | 2 | 3 | 21 | 20 | 19 | 18
|32u4 based (e.g Leonardo, Micro) | 3 | 2 | 0 | 1 | 7 |
|===================================================
For Uno WiFiRev.2, Due, Zero, MKR Family and 101 boards the *interrupt number = pin number*.


--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Update attachInterrupt.adoc for MEGA
Using pins 20, 21 for interrupts on the MEGA 2560 can cause some real headaches if not aware that they have external pull up resistors on them. The pull ups are there for TWI functionality, and cannot be disabled shy of desoldering the resistors from the board. 
I can confirm that the 2560 and the ADK both have these resistors. I do not know about the original MEGA, but I assume it has them too.

Language/Functions/External Interrupts/attachInterrupt.adoc, after:

---
title: attachInterrupt()
categories: [ "Functions" ]
subCategories: [ "External Interrupts" ]
---

= attachInterrupt()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
*Digital Pins With Interrupts*

The first parameter to `attachInterrupt()` is an interrupt number. Normally you should use `digitalPinToInterrupt(pin)` to translate the actual digital pin to the specific interrupt number. For example, if you connect to pin 3, use `digitalPinToInterrupt(3)` as the first parameter to `attachInterrupt()`.

[options="header"]
|===================================================
|Board                             |Digital Pins Usable For Interrupts
|Uno, Nano, Mini, other 328-based  |2, 3
|Uno WiFi Rev.2, Nano Every        |all digital pins
|Mega, Mega2560, MegaADK           |2, 3, 18, 19, 20*, 21*
|Micro, Leonardo, other 32u4-based |0, 1, 2, 3, 7
|Zero                              |all digital pins, except 4
|MKR Family boards                 |0, 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, A1, A2
|Nano 33 IoT                       |2, 3, 9, 10, 11, 13, 15, A5, A7
|Nano 33 BLE, Nano 33 BLE Sense    |all pins
|Due                               |all digital pins
|101                               |all digital pins (Only pins 2, 5, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13 work with *CHANGE*)
|===================================================

*Pins 20 and 21 of the MEGA series have external 10Kohm pull-up resistors attached to them that cannot be disabled.
[%hardbreaks]

[float]
=== Notes and Warnings

*Note* +
Inside the attached function, `delay()` won't work and the value returned by `millis()` will not increment. Serial data received while in the function may be lost. You should declare as `volatile` any variables that you modify within the attached function. See the section on ISRs below for more information.
[%hardbreaks]

[float]
== Using Interrupts
Interrupts are useful for making things happen automatically in microcontroller programs and can help solve timing problems. Good tasks for using an interrupt may include reading a rotary encoder, or monitoring user input.

If you wanted to ensure that a program always caught the pulses from a rotary encoder, so that it never misses a pulse, it would make it very tricky to write a program to do anything else, because the program would need to constantly poll the sensor lines for the encoder, in order to catch pulses when they occurred. Other sensors have a similar interface dynamic too, such as trying to read a sound sensor that is trying to catch a click, or an infrared slot sensor (photo-interrupter) trying to catch a coin drop. In all of these situations, using an interrupt can free the microcontroller to get some other work done while not missing the input.

[float]
== About Interrupt Service Routines
ISRs are special kinds of functions that have some unique limitations most other functions do not have. An ISR cannot have any parameters, and they shouldn't return anything.

Generally, an ISR should be as short and fast as possible. If your sketch uses multiple ISRs, only one can run at a time, other interrupts will be executed after the current one finishes in an order that depends on the priority they have. `millis()` relies on interrupts to count, so it will never increment inside an ISR. Since `delay()` requires interrupts to work, it will not work if called inside an ISR. `micros()` works initially but will start behaving erratically after 1-2 ms. `delayMicroseconds()` does not use any counter, so it will work as normal.

Typically global variables are used to pass data between an ISR and the main program. To make sure variables shared between an ISR and the main program are updated correctly, declare them as `volatile`.

For more information on interrupts, see http://gammon.com.au/interrupts[Nick Gammon's notes].

[float]
=== Syntax
`attachInterrupt(digitalPinToInterrupt(pin), ISR, mode)` (recommended) +
`attachInterrupt(interrupt, ISR, mode)` (not recommended) +
`attachInterrupt(pin, ISR, mode)` (Not recommended. Additionally, this syntax only works on Arduino SAMD Boards, Uno WiFi Rev2, Due, and 101.)


[float]
=== Parameters
`interrupt`: the number of the interrupt. Allowed data types: `int`. +
`pin`: the Arduino pin number. +
`ISR`: the ISR to call when the interrupt occurs; this function must take no parameters and return nothing. This function is sometimes referred to as an interrupt service routine. +
`mode`: defines when the interrupt should be triggered. Four constants are predefined as valid values: +

* *LOW* to trigger the interrupt whenever the pin is low, +
* *CHANGE* to trigger the interrupt whenever the pin changes value +
* *RISING* to trigger when the pin goes from low to high, +
* *FALLING* for when the pin goes from high to low. +

The Due, Zero and MKR1000 boards allow also: +

* *HIGH* to trigger the interrupt whenever the pin is high.


[float]
=== Returns
Nothing

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS

// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄


[source,arduino]
----
const byte ledPin = 13;
const byte interruptPin = 2;
volatile byte state = LOW;

void setup() {
  pinMode(ledPin, OUTPUT);
  pinMode(interruptPin, INPUT_PULLUP);
  attachInterrupt(digitalPinToInterrupt(interruptPin), blink, CHANGE);
}

void loop() {
  digitalWrite(ledPin, state);
}

void blink() {
  state = !state;
}
----

[float]
=== Interrupt Numbers
Normally you should use `digitalPinToInterrupt(pin)`, rather than place an interrupt number directly into your sketch. The specific pins with interrupts and their mapping to interrupt number varies for each type of board. Direct use of interrupt numbers may seem simple, but it can cause compatibility trouble when your sketch runs on a different board.

However, older sketches often have direct interrupt numbers. Often number 0 (for digital pin 2) or number 1 (for digital pin 3) were used. The table below shows the available interrupt pins on various boards.

Note that in the table below, the interrupt numbers refer to the number to be passed to `attachInterrupt()`. For historical reasons, this numbering does not always correspond directly to the interrupt numbering on the ATmega chip (e.g. int.0 corresponds to INT4 on the ATmega2560 chip).

[options="header"]
|===================================================
|Board                            | int.0 | int.1 | int.2 | int.3 | int.4 | int.5
|Uno, Ethernet                    | 2 | 3 | | | |
|Mega2560                         | 2 | 3 | 21 | 20 | 19 | 18
|32u4 based (e.g Leonardo, Micro) | 3 | 2 | 0 | 1 | 7 |
|===================================================
For Uno WiFiRev.2, Due, Zero, MKR Family and 101 boards the *interrupt number = pin number*.


--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS
