Language/Functions/Time/delayMicroseconds.adoc, before:

---
title: delayMicroseconds()
categories: [ "Functions" ]
subCategories: [ "Time" ]
---





= delayMicroseconds()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Pauses the program for the amount of time (in microseconds) specified by the parameter. There are a thousand microseconds in a millisecond and a million microseconds in a second.

Currently, the largest value that will produce an accurate delay is 16383. This could change in future Arduino releases. For delays longer than a few thousand microseconds, you should use `delay()` instead.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`delayMicroseconds(us)`


[float]
=== Parameters
`us`: the number of microseconds to pause. Allowed data types: `unsigned int`.


[float]
=== Returns
Nothing

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄
The code configures pin number 8 to work as an output pin. It sends a train of pulses of approximately 100 microseconds period. The approximation is due to execution of the other instructions in the code.

[source,arduino]
----
int outPin = 8;               // digital pin 8

void setup() {
  pinMode(outPin, OUTPUT);    // sets the digital pin as output
}

void loop() {
  digitalWrite(outPin, HIGH); // sets the pin on
  delayMicroseconds(50);      // pauses for 50 microseconds
  digitalWrite(outPin, LOW);  // sets the pin off
  delayMicroseconds(50);      // pauses for 50 microseconds
}
----
[%hardbreaks]

[float]
=== Notes and Warnings
This function works very accurately in the range 3 microseconds and up. We cannot assure that delayMicroseconds will perform precisely for smaller delay-times.

As of Arduino 0018, delayMicroseconds() no longer disables interrupts.

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Update delayMicroseconds.adoc (#847)
Improve warning about long delay times , and that they can be extremely brief.

Language/Functions/Time/delayMicroseconds.adoc, after:

---
title: delayMicroseconds()
categories: [ "Functions" ]
subCategories: [ "Time" ]
---





= delayMicroseconds()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Pauses the program for the amount of time (in microseconds) specified by the parameter. There are a thousand microseconds in a millisecond and a million microseconds in a second.

Currently, the largest value that will produce an accurate delay is 16383; larger values can produce an extremely short delay. This could change in future Arduino releases. For delays longer than a few thousand microseconds, you should use `delay()` instead.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`delayMicroseconds(us)`


[float]
=== Parameters
`us`: the number of microseconds to pause. Allowed data types: `unsigned int`.


[float]
=== Returns
Nothing

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄
The code configures pin number 8 to work as an output pin. It sends a train of pulses of approximately 100 microseconds period. The approximation is due to execution of the other instructions in the code.

[source,arduino]
----
int outPin = 8;               // digital pin 8

void setup() {
  pinMode(outPin, OUTPUT);    // sets the digital pin as output
}

void loop() {
  digitalWrite(outPin, HIGH); // sets the pin on
  delayMicroseconds(50);      // pauses for 50 microseconds
  digitalWrite(outPin, LOW);  // sets the pin off
  delayMicroseconds(50);      // pauses for 50 microseconds
}
----
[%hardbreaks]

[float]
=== Notes and Warnings
This function works very accurately in the range 3 microseconds and up to 16383. We cannot assure that delayMicroseconds will perform precisely for smaller delay-times. Larger delay times may actually delay for an extremely brief time. 

As of Arduino 0018, delayMicroseconds() no longer disables interrupts.

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS
