Language/Functions/Time/millis.adoc, before:

---
title: millis()
categories: [ "Functions" ]
subCategories: [ "Time" ]
---

= millis()

// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Returns the number of milliseconds passed since the Arduino board began running the current program. This number will overflow (go back to zero), after approximately 50 days.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`time = millis()`


[float]
=== Parameters
None


[float]
=== Returns
Number of milliseconds passed since the program started. Data type: `unsigned long`.

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄
This example code prints on the serial port the number of milliseconds passed since the Arduino board started running the code itself.

[source,arduino]
----
unsigned long myTime;

void setup() {
  Serial.begin(9600);
}
void loop() {
  Serial.print("Time: ");
  myTime = millis();

  Serial.println(myTime); // prints time since program started
  delay(1000);          // wait a second so as not to send massive amounts of data
}
----
[%hardbreaks]

[float]
=== Notes and Warnings
Please note that the return value for millis() is of type `unsigned long`, logic errors may occur if a programmer tries to do arithmetic with smaller data types such as `int`. Even signed `long` may encounter errors as its maximum value is half that of its unsigned counterpart.

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="example"]
* #EXAMPLE# http://arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/BlinkWithoutDelay[Blink Without Delay^]

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Mention millis() not ticking every millisecond
Mention millis() ticking every 1.024 mS, skipping a value every 41 or 42, and maybe using micros for short accurate timings.

Language/Functions/Time/millis.adoc, after:

---
title: millis()
categories: [ "Functions" ]
subCategories: [ "Time" ]
---

= millis()

// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Returns the number of milliseconds passed since the Arduino board began running the current program. This number will overflow (go back to zero), after approximately 50 days.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`time = millis()`


[float]
=== Parameters
None


[float]
=== Returns
Number of milliseconds passed since the program started. Data type: `unsigned long`.

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄
This example code prints on the serial port the number of milliseconds passed since the Arduino board started running the code itself.

[source,arduino]
----
unsigned long myTime;

void setup() {
  Serial.begin(9600);
}
void loop() {
  Serial.print("Time: ");
  myTime = millis();

  Serial.println(myTime); // prints time since program started
  delay(1000);          // wait a second so as not to send massive amounts of data
}
----
[%hardbreaks]

[float]
=== Notes and Warnings
Please note that the return value for millis() is of type `unsigned long`, logic errors may occur if a programmer tries to do arithmetic with smaller data types such as `int`. Even signed `long` may encounter errors as its maximum value is half that of its unsigned counterpart.

Note that millis() is incremented (for 16 MHz AVR chips and some others) every 1.024 milliseconds, then incrementing by 2 (rather than 1) every 41 or 42 ticks, to pull it back into synch; thus some millis() values are skipped. For accurate timing over short intervals, consider using micros().

Note that millis() will wrap around to 0 after about 49 days (micros in about 71 minutes). 

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="example"]
* #EXAMPLE# http://arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/BlinkWithoutDelay[Blink Without Delay^]

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS
