Language/Functions/Communication/Stream/streamReadBytesUntil.adoc, before:

---
title: Stream.readBytesUntil()
---




= readBytesUntil()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
`readBytesUntil()` reads characters from a stream into a buffer. The function terminates if the terminator character is detected, the determined length has been read, or it times out (see link:../streamsettimeout[setTimeout()]). The function returns the characters up to the last character before the supplied terminator. The terminator itself is not returned in the buffer.

`readBytesUntil()` returns the number of bytes placed in the buffer. A 0 means no valid data was found.

This function is part of the Stream class, and can be called by any class that inherits from it (Wire, Serial, etc). See the link:../../stream[Stream class] main page for more information.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`stream.readBytesUntil(character, buffer, length)`


[float]
=== Parameters
`stream` : an instance of a class that inherits from Stream.

`character` : the character to search for (`char`)

`buffer`: the buffer to store the bytes in (`char[]` or `byte[]`)

`length` : the number of bytes to `read(int)`

[float]
=== Returns
The number of bytes placed in the buffer.

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS


// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Notes and Warnings
The terminator character is discarded from the stream.
[%hardbreaks]

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Use standard format for Syntax, Parameters, and Returns sections
I have faithfully followed the standard established by the reference sample. The exception is in documenting the return type, since the reference sample does not provide any guidance on this subject. In this, I attempted to be consistent with the standard established for documenting parameter types ("Allowed data types:" for parameters, "Data type:" for return type).

Language/Functions/Communication/Stream/streamReadBytesUntil.adoc, after:

---
title: Stream.readBytesUntil()
---




= readBytesUntil()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
`readBytesUntil()` reads characters from a stream into a buffer. The function terminates if the terminator character is detected, the determined length has been read, or it times out (see link:../streamsettimeout[setTimeout()]). The function returns the characters up to the last character before the supplied terminator. The terminator itself is not returned in the buffer.

`readBytesUntil()` returns the number of bytes placed in the buffer. A 0 means no valid data was found.

This function is part of the Stream class, and can be called by any class that inherits from it (Wire, Serial, etc). See the link:../../stream[Stream class] main page for more information.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`stream.readBytesUntil(character, buffer, length)`


[float]
=== Parameters
`stream`: an instance of a class that inherits from Stream. +
`character`: the character to search for. Allowed data types: `char`. +
`buffer`: the buffer to store the bytes in. Allowed data types: array of `char` or `byte`s. +
`length`: the number of bytes to read. Allowed data types: `int`.


[float]
=== Returns
The number of bytes placed in the buffer.

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS


// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Notes and Warnings
The terminator character is discarded from the stream.
[%hardbreaks]

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS
