Language/Structure/Further Syntax/define.adoc, before:

---
title: "#define"
title_expanded: define
categories: [ "Structure" ]
subCategories: [ "Further Syntax" ]
---





= #define


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
`#define` is a useful C++ component that allows the programmer to give a name to a constant value before the program is compiled. Defined constants in arduino don't take up any program memory space on the chip. The compiler will replace references to these constants with the defined value at compile time.
[%hardbreaks]

This can have some unwanted side effects though, if for example, a constant name that had been #defined is included in some other constant or variable name. In that case the text would be replaced by the #defined number (or text).
[%hardbreaks]

In general, the link:../../../variables/variable-scope\--qualifiers/const[const] keyword is preferred for defining constants and should be used instead of #define.
[%hardbreaks]

[float]
=== Syntax
[source,arduino]
----
#define constantName value
----
Note that the # is necessary.
[%hardbreaks]

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code

[source,arduino]
----
#define ledPin 3
// The compiler will replace any mention of ledPin with the value 3 at compile time.
----
[%hardbreaks]

[float]
=== Notes and Warnings
There is no semicolon after the #define statement. If you include one, the compiler will throw cryptic errors further down the page.

[source,arduino]
----
#define ledPin 3; // this is an error
----

Similarly, including an equal sign after the #define statement will also generate a cryptic compiler error further down the page.

[source,arduino]
----
#define ledPin  = 3 // this is also an error
----
[%hardbreaks]

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS




// SEE ALSO SECTION BEGINS
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="language"]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../../../variables/variable-scope\--qualifiers/const[const]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../../../variables/constants/constants[Constants]

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Use standard format for Syntax, Parameters, and Returns sections
I have faithfully followed the standard established by the reference sample. The exception is in documenting the return type, since the reference sample does not provide any guidance on this subject. In this, I attempted to be consistent with the standard established for documenting parameter types ("Allowed data types:" for parameters, "Data type:" for return type).

Language/Structure/Further Syntax/define.adoc, after:

---
title: "#define"
title_expanded: define
categories: [ "Structure" ]
subCategories: [ "Further Syntax" ]
---





= #define


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
`#define` is a useful C++ component that allows the programmer to give a name to a constant value before the program is compiled. Defined constants in arduino don't take up any program memory space on the chip. The compiler will replace references to these constants with the defined value at compile time.
[%hardbreaks]

This can have some unwanted side effects though, if for example, a constant name that had been #defined is included in some other constant or variable name. In that case the text would be replaced by the #defined number (or text).
[%hardbreaks]

In general, the link:../../../variables/variable-scope\--qualifiers/const[const] keyword is preferred for defining constants and should be used instead of #define.
[%hardbreaks]

[float]
=== Syntax
`#define constantName value`


[float]
=== Parameters
`constantName`: the name of the macro to define. +
`value`: the value to assign to the macro.

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code

[source,arduino]
----
#define ledPin 3
// The compiler will replace any mention of ledPin with the value 3 at compile time.
----
[%hardbreaks]

[float]
=== Notes and Warnings
There is no semicolon after the #define statement. If you include one, the compiler will throw cryptic errors further down the page.

[source,arduino]
----
#define ledPin 3; // this is an error
----

Similarly, including an equal sign after the #define statement will also generate a cryptic compiler error further down the page.

[source,arduino]
----
#define ledPin  = 3 // this is also an error
----
[%hardbreaks]

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS




// SEE ALSO SECTION BEGINS
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="language"]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../../../variables/variable-scope\--qualifiers/const[const]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../../../variables/constants/constants[Constants]

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS
