Language/Structure/Further Syntax/include.adoc, before:

---
title: "#include"
title_expanded: include
categories: [ "Structure" ]
subCategories: [ "Further Syntax" ]
---





= #include


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
`#include` is used to include outside libraries in your sketch. This gives the programmer access to a large group of standard C libraries (groups of pre-made functions), and also libraries written especially for Arduino.
[%hardbreaks]

The main reference page for AVR C libraries (AVR is a reference to the Atmel chips on which the Arduino is based) is http://www.nongnu.org/avr-libc/user-manual/modules.html[here^].
[%hardbreaks]

Note that `#include`, similar to `link:../define[#define]`, has no semicolon terminator, and the compiler will yield cryptic error messages if you add one.
[%hardbreaks]

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
This example includes the Servo library so that its functions may be used to control a Servo motor.


[source,arduino]
----
#include <Servo.h>

Servo myservo;  // create servo object to control a servo

void setup() {
  myservo.attach(9);  // attaches the servo on pin 9 to the servo object
}

void loop() {
  for (int pos = 0; pos <= 180; pos += 1) { // goes from 0 degrees to 180 degrees
    // in steps of 1 degree
    myservo.write(pos);              // tell servo to go to position in variable 'pos'
    delay(15);                       // waits 15ms for the servo to reach the position
  }
  for (int pos = 180; pos >= 0; pos -= 1) { // goes from 180 degrees to 0 degrees
    myservo.write(pos);              // tell servo to go to position in variable 'pos'
    delay(15);                       // waits 15ms for the servo to reach the position
  }
}
----


--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS



// SEE ALSO SECTION BEGINS
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="language"]


--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Document double quotes syntax of #include directives

Language/Structure/Further Syntax/include.adoc, after:

---
title: "#include"
title_expanded: include
categories: [ "Structure" ]
subCategories: [ "Further Syntax" ]
---





= #include


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
`#include` is used to include outside libraries in your sketch. This gives the programmer access to a large group of standard C libraries (groups of pre-made functions), and also libraries written especially for Arduino.
[%hardbreaks]

The main reference page for AVR C libraries (AVR is a reference to the Atmel chips on which the Arduino is based) is http://www.nongnu.org/avr-libc/user-manual/modules.html[here^].
[%hardbreaks]

Note that `#include`, similar to `link:../define[#define]`, has no semicolon terminator, and the compiler will yield cryptic error messages if you add one.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`#include <LibraryFile.h>` +
`#include "LocalFile.h"`


[float]
=== Parameters
`LibraryFile.h`: when the angle brackets syntax is used, the libraries paths will be searched for the file. +
`LocalFile.h`: When the double quotes syntax is used, the folder of the file using the `#include` directive will be searched for the specified file, then the libraries paths if it was not found in the local path. Use this syntax for header files in the sketch's folder.

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
This example includes the Servo library so that its functions may be used to control a Servo motor.


[source,arduino]
----
#include <Servo.h>

Servo myservo;  // create servo object to control a servo

void setup() {
  myservo.attach(9);  // attaches the servo on pin 9 to the servo object
}

void loop() {
  for (int pos = 0; pos <= 180; pos += 1) { // goes from 0 degrees to 180 degrees
    // in steps of 1 degree
    myservo.write(pos);              // tell servo to go to position in variable 'pos'
    delay(15);                       // waits 15ms for the servo to reach the position
  }
  for (int pos = 180; pos >= 0; pos -= 1) { // goes from 180 degrees to 0 degrees
    myservo.write(pos);              // tell servo to go to position in variable 'pos'
    delay(15);                       // waits 15ms for the servo to reach the position
  }
}
----


--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS



// SEE ALSO SECTION BEGINS
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="language"]


--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS
