Language/Structure/Bitwise Operators/bitshiftRight.adoc, before:

---
title: ">>"
title_expanded: bitshift right
categories: [ "Structure" ]
subCategories: [ "Bitwise Operators" ]
---





= >> Bitshift Right


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
The right shift operator `>>` causes the bits of the left operand to be shifted *right* by the number of positions specified by the right operand.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`variable >> number_of_bits;`


[float]
=== Parameters
`variable`: Allowed data types: `byte`, `int`, `long`. +
`number_of_bits`: a number that is < = 32. Allowed data types: `int`.

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS



// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code

[source,arduino]
----
int a = 40;     // binary: 0000000000101000
int b = a >> 3; // binary: 0000000000000101, or 5 in decimal
----
[%hardbreaks]

[float]
=== Notes and Warnings
When you shift x right by y bits (x >> y), and the highest bit in x is a 1, the behavior depends on the exact data type of x. If x is of type int, the highest bit is the sign bit, determining whether x is negative or not, as we have discussed above. In that case, the sign bit is copied into lower bits, for esoteric historical reasons:

[source,arduino]
----
int x = -16;  // binary: 1111111111110000
int y = 3;
int result = x >> y;  // binary: 1111111111111110
----
This behavior, called sign extension, is often not the behavior you want. Instead, you may wish zeros to be shifted in from the left. It turns out that the right shift rules are different for unsigned int expressions, so you can use a typecast to suppress ones being copied from the left:

[source,arduino]
----
int x = -16;  // binary: 1111111111110000
int y = 3;
int result = (unsigned int)x >> y;  // binary: 0001111111111110
----
Sign extension causes that you can use the right-shift operator `>>` as a way to divide by powers of 2, even negative numbers. For example:

[source,arduino]
----
int x = -1000;
int y = x >> 3; // integer division of -1000 by 8, causing y = -125.
----
But be aware of the rounding with negative numbers:
[source,arduino]
----
int x = -1001;
int y = x >> 3; // division by shifting always rounds down, causing y = -126
int z = x / 8;  // division operator rounds towards zero, causing z = -125
----

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="language"]

[role="example"]
* #EXAMPLE# http://www.arduino.cc/playground/Code/BitMath[BitMath Tutorial^]

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Multiple fixes to bitshiftRight.adoc
A few corrections:

* The allowed types for the left operand are not only `byte`, `int` and
  `long`: any integer type is allowed. In fact, an example further down
  uses `unsigned int`.

* The right operand should be positive and less than the width of the
  left operand, otherwise the behavior is undefined. The condition
  "<= 32" is incorrect, even on 32-bit architectures.

* Sign extension is not done "for esoteric historical reasons": it is
  required for the shift to perform a division by powers of two.

Also, specify that the bits that fall off are discarded, reword some
sentences, format variable names as code, and add the decimal results in
comments.

Language/Structure/Bitwise Operators/bitshiftRight.adoc, after:

---
title: ">>"
title_expanded: bitshift right
categories: [ "Structure" ]
subCategories: [ "Bitwise Operators" ]
---





= >> Bitshift Right


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
The right shift operator `>>` causes the bits of the left operand to be shifted *right* by the number of positions specified by the right operand.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`variable >> number_of_bits;`


[float]
=== Parameters
`variable`: Allowed data types: any integer type (`byte`, `short`, `int`, `long`, `unsigned short`...). +
`number_of_bits`: a positive number smaller than the bit-width of `variable`. Allowed data types: `int`.

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS



// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code

[source,arduino]
----
int a = 40;     // binary: 0000000000101000
int b = a >> 3; // binary: 0000000000000101, decimal: 5
----
[%hardbreaks]

[float]
=== Notes and Warnings
When you shift `x` right by `y` bits (`x >> y`), the `y` rightmost bits of `x` “fall off” and are discarded. If `x` has an unsigned type (e.g. `unsigned int`), the `y` leftmost bits of the result are filled with zeroes. If `x` has a signed type (e.g. `int`), its leftmost bit is the sign bit, which determines whether it is positive or negative. In this case, the `y` leftmost bits of the result are filled with copies of the sign bit. This behavior, called “sign extension”, ensures the result has the same sign as `x`.

[source,arduino]
----
int x = -16;          // binary: 1111111111110000
int y = 3;
int result = x >> y;  // binary: 1111111111111110, decimal: -2
----
This may not be the behavior you want. If you instead want zeros to be shifted in from the left, you can use a typecast to suppress sign extension:

[source,arduino]
----
int x = -16;                        // binary: 1111111111110000
int y = 3;
int result = (unsigned int)x >> y;  // binary: 0001111111111110, decimal: 8190
----
Sign extension causes the right-shift operator `>>` to perform a division by powers of 2, even with negative numbers. For example:

[source,arduino]
----
int x = -1000;
int y = x >> 3; // integer division of -1000 by 8, causing y = -125.
----
But be aware of the rounding with negative numbers:
[source,arduino]
----
int x = -1001;
int y = x >> 3; // division by shifting always rounds down, causing y = -126
int z = x / 8;  // division operator rounds towards zero, causing z = -125
----

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="language"]

[role="example"]
* #EXAMPLE# http://www.arduino.cc/playground/Code/BitMath[BitMath Tutorial^]

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS
