Language/Structure/Arithmetic Operators/modulo.adoc, before:

---
title: "%"
title_expanded: "modulo"
categories: [ "Structure" ]
subCategories: [ "Arithmetic Operators" ]
---





= % Modulo


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
*Modulo* operation calculates the remainder when one integer is divided by another. It is useful for keeping a variable within a particular range (e.g. the size of an array). The `%` (percent) symbol is used to carry out modulo operation.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
[source,arduino]
----
remainder = dividend % divisor;
----

[float]
=== Parameters
`remainder` : variable. *Allowed data types:* int, float, double +
`dividend` : variable or constant. *Allowed data types:* int +
`divisor` : *non zero* variable or constant. *Allowed data types:* int
[%hardbreaks]

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS



// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code

[source,arduino]
----
int x = 0;
x = 7 % 5;    // x now contains 2
x = 9 % 5;    // x now contains 4
x = 5 % 5;    // x now contains 0
x = 4 % 5;    // x now contains 4
----

[source,arduino]
----
/* update one value in an array each time through a loop */

int values[10];
int i = 0;

void setup() {}

void loop()
{
  values[i] = analogRead(0);
  i = (i + 1) % 10;   // modulo operator rolls over variable
}
----
[%hardbreaks]

[float]
=== Notes and Warnings
The modulo operator does not work on floats.
[%hardbreaks]

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS

// SEE ALSO SECTION STARTS
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="language"]

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Rename "modulo" to "remainder"
Replaced all occurrences of "modulo" with "remainder" in modulo.adoc
(since the behavior with negative numbers is more consistent with a remainder)
and added examples with negative numbers.

Language/Structure/Arithmetic Operators/modulo.adoc, after:

---
title: "%"
title_expanded: "remainder"
categories: [ "Structure" ]
subCategories: [ "Arithmetic Operators" ]
---





= % Remainder


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
*Remainder* operation calculates the remainder when one integer is divided by another. It is useful for keeping a variable within a particular range (e.g. the size of an array). The `%` (percent) symbol is used to carry out remainder operation.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
[source,arduino]
----
remainder = dividend % divisor;
----

[float]
=== Parameters
`remainder` : variable. *Allowed data types:* int, float, double +
`dividend` : variable or constant. *Allowed data types:* int +
`divisor` : *non zero* variable or constant. *Allowed data types:* int
[%hardbreaks]

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS



// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code

[source,arduino]
----
int x = 0;
x = 7 % 5;    // x now contains 2
x = 9 % 5;    // x now contains 4
x = 5 % 5;    // x now contains 0
x = 4 % 5;    // x now contains 4
x = -4 % 5;   // x now contains -4
x = 4 % -5;   // x now contains 4
----

[source,arduino]
----
/* update one value in an array each time through a loop */

int values[10];
int i = 0;

void setup() {}

void loop()
{
  values[i] = analogRead(0);
  i = (i + 1) % 10;   // remainder operator rolls over variable
}
----
[%hardbreaks]

[float]
=== Notes and Warnings
1. The remainder operator does not work on floats.

2. If the *first* operand is negative, the result is negative (or zero).
Therefore, the result of `x % 10` will not always be between 0 and 9 if `x` can be negative.
[%hardbreaks]

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS

// SEE ALSO SECTION STARTS
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="language"]

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS
