Language/Functions/Communication/Serial/available.adoc, before:

---
title: Serial.available()
---

= available()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Get the number of bytes (characters) available for reading from the serial port. This is data that's already arrived and stored in the serial receive buffer (which holds 64 bytes). `available()` inherits from the Stream utility class.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`Serial.available()`

_Arduino Mega only:_

`Serial1.available()` +
`Serial2.available()` +
`Serial3.available()`


[float]
=== Parameters
None

[float]
=== Returns
The number of bytes available to read .
--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS

// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--
[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄
The following code returns a character received through the serial port. 

[source,arduino]
----
int incomingByte = 0;	// for incoming serial data

void setup() {
	Serial.begin(9600);	// opens serial port, sets data rate to 9600 bps
}

void loop() {

	// reply only when you receive data:
	if (Serial.available() > 0) {
		// read the incoming byte:
		incomingByte = Serial.read();

		// say what you got:
		Serial.print("I received: ");
		Serial.println(incomingByte, DEC);
	}
}
----
[%hardbreaks]

*Arduino Mega example:*
This code sends data received in one serial port of the Arduino Mega to another. This can be used, for example, to connect a serial device to the computer through the Arduino board.

[source,arduino]
----
void setup() {
  Serial.begin(9600);
  Serial1.begin(9600);

}

void loop() {
  // read from port 0, send to port 1:
  if (Serial.available()) {
    int inByte = Serial.read();
    Serial1.print(inByte, DEC);

  }
  // read from port 1, send to port 0:
  if (Serial1.available()) {
    int inByte = Serial1.read();
    Serial.print(inByte, DEC);
  }
}
----

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="language"]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../begin[begin()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../end[end()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../read[read()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../peek[peek()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../flush[flush()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../print[print()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../println[println()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../write[write()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../serialevent[SerialEvent()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../../stream/streamavailable[Stream.available()]

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Correct/update information about available serial ports for each board
The Serial reference pages contained large amounts of incorrect or extremely outdated information about which serial ports were available for each board.

- Add a table to the Serial reference homepage which lists the available ports for each board. Previously, this was done in a verbose manner that does not lend itself to the ever increasing information that must be conveyed on this topic as new boards are added.
- Rather than document syntax for each of the list of possible serial objects, only document each function signature and then point the reader to the list of available ports for each board in the homepage.
- Fix miscellaneous incorrect or outdated information about ports throughout the Serial reference pages.

Language/Functions/Communication/Serial/available.adoc, after:

---
title: Serial.available()
---

= available()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Get the number of bytes (characters) available for reading from the serial port. This is data that's already arrived and stored in the serial receive buffer (which holds 64 bytes). `available()` inherits from the Stream utility class.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`_Serial_.available()`

[float]
=== Parameters
`_Serial_`: serial port object. See the list of available serial ports for each board on the link:../../serial[Serial main page].

[float]
=== Returns
The number of bytes available to read .
--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS

// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--
[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄
The following code returns a character received through the serial port. 

[source,arduino]
----
int incomingByte = 0;	// for incoming serial data

void setup() {
	Serial.begin(9600);	// opens serial port, sets data rate to 9600 bps
}

void loop() {

	// reply only when you receive data:
	if (Serial.available() > 0) {
		// read the incoming byte:
		incomingByte = Serial.read();

		// say what you got:
		Serial.print("I received: ");
		Serial.println(incomingByte, DEC);
	}
}
----
[%hardbreaks]

*Arduino Mega example:*
This code sends data received in one serial port of the Arduino Mega to another. This can be used, for example, to connect a serial device to the computer through the Arduino board.

[source,arduino]
----
void setup() {
  Serial.begin(9600);
  Serial1.begin(9600);

}

void loop() {
  // read from port 0, send to port 1:
  if (Serial.available()) {
    int inByte = Serial.read();
    Serial1.print(inByte, DEC);

  }
  // read from port 1, send to port 0:
  if (Serial1.available()) {
    int inByte = Serial1.read();
    Serial.print(inByte, DEC);
  }
}
----

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="language"]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../begin[begin()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../end[end()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../read[read()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../peek[peek()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../flush[flush()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../print[print()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../println[println()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../write[write()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../serialevent[SerialEvent()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../../stream/streamavailable[Stream.available()]

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS
