Language/Functions/Communication/Serial/begin.adoc, before:

---
title: Serial.begin()
---




= begin()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Sets the data rate in bits per second (baud) for serial data transmission. For communicating with Serial Monitor, make sure to use one of the baud rates listed in the menu at the bottom right corner of its screen. You can, however, specify other rates - for example, to communicate over pins 0 and 1 with a component that requires a particular baud rate.

An optional second argument configures the data, parity, and stop bits. The default is 8 data bits, no parity, one stop bit.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`_Serial_.begin(speed)` +
`_Serial_.begin(speed, config)`


[float]
=== Parameters
`_Serial_`: serial port object. See the list of available serial ports for each board on the link:../../serial[Serial main page]. +
`speed`: in bits per second (baud). Allowed data types: `long`. +
`config`: sets data, parity, and stop bits. Valid values are: +
`SERIAL_5N1` +
`SERIAL_6N1` +
`SERIAL_7N1` +
`SERIAL_8N1` (the default) +
`SERIAL_5N2` +
`SERIAL_6N2` +
`SERIAL_7N2` +
`SERIAL_8N2` +
`SERIAL_5E1`: even parity +
`SERIAL_6E1` +
`SERIAL_7E1` +
`SERIAL_8E1` +
`SERIAL_5E2` +
`SERIAL_6E2` +
`SERIAL_7E2` +
`SERIAL_8E2` +
`SERIAL_5O1`: odd parity +
`SERIAL_6O1` +
`SERIAL_7O1` +
`SERIAL_8O1` +
`SERIAL_5O2` +
`SERIAL_6O2` +
`SERIAL_7O2` +
`SERIAL_8O2`


[float]
=== Returns
Nothing

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄


[source,arduino]
----
void setup() {
    Serial.begin(9600); // opens serial port, sets data rate to 9600 bps
}

void loop() {}
----
[%hardbreaks]

*Arduino Mega example:*
[source,arduino]
----
// Arduino Mega using all four of its Serial ports
// (Serial, Serial1, Serial2, Serial3),
// with different baud rates:

void setup() {
  Serial.begin(9600);
  Serial1.begin(38400);
  Serial2.begin(19200);
  Serial3.begin(4800);

  Serial.println("Hello Computer");
  Serial1.println("Hello Serial 1");
  Serial2.println("Hello Serial 2");
  Serial3.println("Hello Serial 3");
}
void loop() {}
----
[%hardbreaks]
Thanks to Jeff Gray for the mega example


[float]
=== Notes and Warnings
For USB CDC serial ports (e.g. `Serial` on the Leonardo), `Serial.begin()` is irrelevant. You can use any baud rate and configuration for serial communication with these ports. See the list of available serial ports for each board on the link:../../serial[Serial main page].
[%hardbreaks]

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Document limitation of Serial1.begin() config value for Nano 33 BLE boards
Add a warning that use of any Serial1.begin() config value other than SERIAL_8N1 on the Arduino Nano 33
BLE boards will cause an Mbed OS crash.

Language/Functions/Communication/Serial/begin.adoc, after:

---
title: Serial.begin()
---




= begin()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Sets the data rate in bits per second (baud) for serial data transmission. For communicating with Serial Monitor, make sure to use one of the baud rates listed in the menu at the bottom right corner of its screen. You can, however, specify other rates - for example, to communicate over pins 0 and 1 with a component that requires a particular baud rate.

An optional second argument configures the data, parity, and stop bits. The default is 8 data bits, no parity, one stop bit.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`_Serial_.begin(speed)` +
`_Serial_.begin(speed, config)`


[float]
=== Parameters
`_Serial_`: serial port object. See the list of available serial ports for each board on the link:../../serial[Serial main page]. +
`speed`: in bits per second (baud). Allowed data types: `long`. +
`config`: sets data, parity, and stop bits. Valid values are: +
`SERIAL_5N1` +
`SERIAL_6N1` +
`SERIAL_7N1` +
`SERIAL_8N1` (the default) +
`SERIAL_5N2` +
`SERIAL_6N2` +
`SERIAL_7N2` +
`SERIAL_8N2` +
`SERIAL_5E1`: even parity +
`SERIAL_6E1` +
`SERIAL_7E1` +
`SERIAL_8E1` +
`SERIAL_5E2` +
`SERIAL_6E2` +
`SERIAL_7E2` +
`SERIAL_8E2` +
`SERIAL_5O1`: odd parity +
`SERIAL_6O1` +
`SERIAL_7O1` +
`SERIAL_8O1` +
`SERIAL_5O2` +
`SERIAL_6O2` +
`SERIAL_7O2` +
`SERIAL_8O2`


[float]
=== Returns
Nothing

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄


[source,arduino]
----
void setup() {
    Serial.begin(9600); // opens serial port, sets data rate to 9600 bps
}

void loop() {}
----
[%hardbreaks]

*Arduino Mega example:*
[source,arduino]
----
// Arduino Mega using all four of its Serial ports
// (Serial, Serial1, Serial2, Serial3),
// with different baud rates:

void setup() {
  Serial.begin(9600);
  Serial1.begin(38400);
  Serial2.begin(19200);
  Serial3.begin(4800);

  Serial.println("Hello Computer");
  Serial1.println("Hello Serial 1");
  Serial2.println("Hello Serial 2");
  Serial3.println("Hello Serial 3");
}
void loop() {}
----
[%hardbreaks]
Thanks to Jeff Gray for the mega example


[float]
=== Notes and Warnings
For USB CDC serial ports (e.g. `Serial` on the Leonardo), `Serial.begin()` is irrelevant. You can use any baud rate and configuration for serial communication with these ports. See the list of available serial ports for each board on the link:../../serial[Serial main page].

The only `config` value supported for `Serial1` on the Arduino Nano 33 BLE and Nano 33 BLE Sense boards is `SERIAL_8N1`.
[%hardbreaks]

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS
