Language/Functions/Communication/Serial/findUntil.adoc, before:

---
title: Serial.findUntil()
---




= Serial.findUntil()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
`Serial.findUntil()` reads data from the serial buffer until a target string of given length or terminator string is found.

The function returns true if the target string is found, false if it times out.

`Serial.findUntil()` inherits from the link:../../stream[Stream] utility class.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`_Serial_.findUntil(target, terminal)`


[float]
=== Parameters
`_Serial_`: serial port object. See the list of available serial ports for each board on the link:../../serial[Serial main page]. +
`target` : the string to search for (char) +
`terminal` : the terminal string in the search (char)

[float]
=== Returns
`bool`

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="language"]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../../stream[stream] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../../stream/streamfinduntil[stream.findUntil()]

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Use standard format for Syntax, Parameters, and Returns sections
I have faithfully followed the standard established by the reference sample. The exception is in documenting the return type, since the reference sample does not provide any guidance on this subject. In this, I attempted to be consistent with the standard established for documenting parameter types ("Allowed data types:" for parameters, "Data type:" for return type).

Language/Functions/Communication/Serial/findUntil.adoc, after:

---
title: Serial.findUntil()
---




= Serial.findUntil()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
`Serial.findUntil()` reads data from the serial buffer until a target string of given length or terminator string is found.

The function returns true if the target string is found, false if it times out.

`Serial.findUntil()` inherits from the link:../../stream[Stream] utility class.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`_Serial_.findUntil(target, terminal)`


[float]
=== Parameters
`_Serial_`: serial port object. See the list of available serial ports for each board on the link:../../serial[Serial main page]. +
`target`: the string to search for. Allowed data types: `char`. +
`terminal`: the terminal string in the search. Allowed data types: `char`.


[float]
=== Returns
Data type: `bool`.

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="language"]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../../stream[stream] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../../stream/streamfinduntil[stream.findUntil()]

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS
