Language/Functions/Communication/Serial/ifSerial.adoc, before:

---
title: if(Serial)
---




= if (Serial)


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Indicates if the specified Serial port is ready.

On the Leonardo, `if (Serial)` indicates whether or not the USB CDC serial connection is open. For all other instances, including `if (Serial1)` on the Leonardo, this will always return true.

This was introduced in Arduino IDE 1.0.1.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
_All boards:_

`if (Serial)`

_Arduino Leonardo specific:_

`if (Serial1)`

_Arduino Mega specific:_

`if (Serial1)` +
`if (Serial2)` +
`if (Serial3)`

[float]
=== Parameters
Nothing

[float]
=== Returns
`bool` : returns true if the specified serial port is available. This will only return false if querying the Leonardo's USB CDC serial connection before it is ready.

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄


[source,arduino]
----
void setup() {
 //Initialize serial and wait for port to open:
  Serial.begin(9600);
  while (!Serial) {
    ; // wait for serial port to connect. Needed for native USB
  }
}

void loop() {
 //proceed normally
}
----

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Correct/update information about available serial ports for each board
The Serial reference pages contained large amounts of incorrect or extremely outdated information about which serial ports were available for each board.

- Add a table to the Serial reference homepage which lists the available ports for each board. Previously, this was done in a verbose manner that does not lend itself to the ever increasing information that must be conveyed on this topic as new boards are added.
- Rather than document syntax for each of the list of possible serial objects, only document each function signature and then point the reader to the list of available ports for each board in the homepage.
- Fix miscellaneous incorrect or outdated information about ports throughout the Serial reference pages.

Language/Functions/Communication/Serial/ifSerial.adoc, after:

---
title: if(Serial)
---




= if (Serial)


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Indicates if the specified Serial port is ready.

On the boards with native USB, `if (Serial)` (or `if(SerialUSB)` on the Due) indicates whether or not the USB CDC serial connection is open. For all other boards, and the non-USB CDC ports, this will always return true.

This was introduced in Arduino IDE 1.0.1.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`if (Serial)`

[float]
=== Parameters
Nothing

[float]
=== Returns
`bool` : returns true if the specified serial port is available. This will only return false if querying the Leonardo's USB CDC serial connection before it is ready.

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄


[source,arduino]
----
void setup() {
 //Initialize serial and wait for port to open:
  Serial.begin(9600);
  while (!Serial) {
    ; // wait for serial port to connect. Needed for native USB
  }
}

void loop() {
 //proceed normally
}
----

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS
