Language/Functions/Communication/Serial/parseFloat.adoc, before:

---
title: Serial.parseFloat()
---




= Serial.parseFloat()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
`Serial.parseFloat()` returns the first valid floating point number from the Serial buffer. Characters that are not digits (or the minus sign) are skipped. `parseFloat()` is terminated by the first character that is not a floating point number. The function terminates if it times out (see link:../settimeout[Serial.setTimeout()]).

`Serial.parseFloat()` inherits from the link:../../stream[Stream] utility class.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`_Serial_.parseFloat()`


[float]
=== Parameters
`_Serial_`: serial port object. See the list of available serial ports for each board on the link:../../serial[Serial main page].

[float]
=== Returns
`float`

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="language"]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../../stream[stream()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../../stream/streamparsefloat[Stream.parseFloat()]

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Correct syntax section of parseFloat() reference pages
Both the Stream.parseFloat() and Serial.parseFloat() reference pages had erroneous information in their syntax documentation.

Reference:
https://github.com/arduino/ArduinoCore-API/blob/1.0.0/api/Stream.h#L93

Language/Functions/Communication/Serial/parseFloat.adoc, after:

---
title: Serial.parseFloat()
---




= Serial.parseFloat()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
`Serial.parseFloat()` returns the first valid floating point number from the Serial buffer. `parseFloat()` is terminated by the first character that is not a floating point number. The function terminates if it times out (see link:../settimeout[Serial.setTimeout()]).

`Serial.parseFloat()` inherits from the link:../../stream[Stream] utility class.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`_Serial_.parseFloat()` +
`_Serial_.parseFloat(lookahead)` +
`_Serial_.parseFloat(lookahead, ignore)`


[float]
=== Parameters
`_Serial_`: serial port object. See the list of available serial ports for each board on the link:../../serial[Serial main page]. +
`lookahead`: the mode used to look ahead in the stream for a floating point number. Allowed data types: `LookaheadMode`. Allowed `lookahead` values:

* `SKIP_ALL`: all characters other than a minus sign, decimal point, or digits are ignored when scanning the stream for a floating point number. This is the default mode.
* `SKIP_NONE`: Nothing is skipped, and the stream is not touched unless the first waiting character is valid.
* `SKIP_WHITESPACE`: Only tabs, spaces, line feeds, and carriage returns are skipped.

`ignore`: used to skip the indicated char in the search. Used for example to skip thousands divider. Allowed data types: `char`

[float]
=== Returns
`float`

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="language"]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../../stream[stream()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../../stream/streamparsefloat[Stream.parseFloat()]

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS
