Language/Functions/Communication/Serial/peek.adoc, before:

---
title: Serial.peek()
---




= peek()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Returns the next byte (character) of incoming serial data without removing it from the internal serial buffer. That is, successive calls to `peek()` will return the same character, as will the next call to `read()`. `peek()` inherits from the link:../../stream[Stream] utility class.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`Serial.peek()`

_Arduino Mega only:_

`Serial1.peek()` +
`Serial2.peek()` +
`Serial3.peek()`


[float]
=== Parameters
Nothing

[float]
=== Returns
The first byte of incoming serial data available (or -1 if no data is available) - `int`

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="language"]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../begin[begin()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../end[end()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../available[available()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../read[read()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../peek[peek()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../flush[flush()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../print[print()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../println[println()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../write[write()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../serialevent[SerialEvent()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../../stream/streampeek[Stream.peek()]

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Correct/update information about available serial ports for each board
The Serial reference pages contained large amounts of incorrect or extremely outdated information about which serial ports were available for each board.

- Add a table to the Serial reference homepage which lists the available ports for each board. Previously, this was done in a verbose manner that does not lend itself to the ever increasing information that must be conveyed on this topic as new boards are added.
- Rather than document syntax for each of the list of possible serial objects, only document each function signature and then point the reader to the list of available ports for each board in the homepage.
- Fix miscellaneous incorrect or outdated information about ports throughout the Serial reference pages.

Language/Functions/Communication/Serial/peek.adoc, after:

---
title: Serial.peek()
---




= peek()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Returns the next byte (character) of incoming serial data without removing it from the internal serial buffer. That is, successive calls to `peek()` will return the same character, as will the next call to `read()`. `peek()` inherits from the link:../../stream[Stream] utility class.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`_Serial_.peek()`


[float]
=== Parameters
`_Serial_`: serial port object. See the list of available serial ports for each board on the link:../../serial[Serial main page].

[float]
=== Returns
The first byte of incoming serial data available (or -1 if no data is available) - `int`

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="language"]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../begin[begin()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../end[end()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../available[available()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../read[read()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../peek[peek()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../flush[flush()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../print[print()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../println[println()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../write[write()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../serialevent[SerialEvent()] +
* #LANGUAGE# link:../../stream/streampeek[Stream.peek()]

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS
