Language/Functions/Communication/Serial/println.adoc, before:

---
title: Serial.println()
---




= println()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Prints data to the serial port as human-readable ASCII text followed by a carriage return character (ASCII 13, or '\r') and a newline character (ASCII 10, or '\n'). This command takes the same forms as link:../print[Serial.print()].
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`Serial.println(val)` +
`Serial.println(val, format)`


[float]
=== Parameters
`val`: the value to print - any data type

`format`: specifies the number base (for integral data types) or number of decimal places (for floating point types)

[float]
=== Returns
`size_t`: `println()` returns the number of bytes written, though reading that number is optional
--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄


[source,arduino]
----
/*
 Analog input reads an analog input on analog in 0, prints the value out.
 created 24 March 2006
 by Tom Igoe
 */

int analogValue = 0;    // variable to hold the analog value

void setup() {
  // open the serial port at 9600 bps:
  Serial.begin(9600);
}

void loop() {
  // read the analog input on pin 0:
  analogValue = analogRead(0);

  // print it out in many formats:
  Serial.println(analogValue);       // print as an ASCII-encoded decimal
  Serial.println(analogValue, DEC);  // print as an ASCII-encoded decimal
  Serial.println(analogValue, HEX);  // print as an ASCII-encoded hexadecimal
  Serial.println(analogValue, OCT);  // print as an ASCII-encoded octal
  Serial.println(analogValue, BIN);  // print as an ASCII-encoded binary

  // delay 10 milliseconds before the next reading:
  delay(10);
}
----

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Correct/update information about available serial ports for each board
The Serial reference pages contained large amounts of incorrect or extremely outdated information about which serial ports were available for each board.

- Add a table to the Serial reference homepage which lists the available ports for each board. Previously, this was done in a verbose manner that does not lend itself to the ever increasing information that must be conveyed on this topic as new boards are added.
- Rather than document syntax for each of the list of possible serial objects, only document each function signature and then point the reader to the list of available ports for each board in the homepage.
- Fix miscellaneous incorrect or outdated information about ports throughout the Serial reference pages.

Language/Functions/Communication/Serial/println.adoc, after:

---
title: Serial.println()
---




= println()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Prints data to the serial port as human-readable ASCII text followed by a carriage return character (ASCII 13, or '\r') and a newline character (ASCII 10, or '\n'). This command takes the same forms as link:../print[Serial.print()].
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`_Serial_.println(val)` +
`_Serial_.println(val, format)`


[float]
=== Parameters
`_Serial_`: serial port object. See the list of available serial ports for each board on the link:../../serial[Serial main page].

`val`: the value to print - any data type

`format`: specifies the number base (for integral data types) or number of decimal places (for floating point types)

[float]
=== Returns
`size_t`: `println()` returns the number of bytes written, though reading that number is optional
--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄


[source,arduino]
----
/*
 Analog input reads an analog input on analog in 0, prints the value out.
 created 24 March 2006
 by Tom Igoe
 */

int analogValue = 0;    // variable to hold the analog value

void setup() {
  // open the serial port at 9600 bps:
  Serial.begin(9600);
}

void loop() {
  // read the analog input on pin 0:
  analogValue = analogRead(0);

  // print it out in many formats:
  Serial.println(analogValue);       // print as an ASCII-encoded decimal
  Serial.println(analogValue, DEC);  // print as an ASCII-encoded decimal
  Serial.println(analogValue, HEX);  // print as an ASCII-encoded hexadecimal
  Serial.println(analogValue, OCT);  // print as an ASCII-encoded octal
  Serial.println(analogValue, BIN);  // print as an ASCII-encoded binary

  // delay 10 milliseconds before the next reading:
  delay(10);
}
----

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS
