Language/Functions/Communication/Serial/print.adoc, before:

---
title: Serial.print()
---




= print()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Prints data to the serial port as human-readable ASCII text. This command can take many forms. Numbers are printed using an ASCII character for each digit. Floats are similarly printed as ASCII digits, defaulting to two decimal places. Bytes are sent as a single character. Characters and strings are sent as is. For example-

* `Serial.print(78)` gives "78" +
* `Serial.print(1.23456)` gives "1.23" +
* `Serial.print('N')` gives "N" +
* `Serial.print("Hello world.")` gives "Hello world." 


An optional second parameter specifies the base (format) to use; permitted values are `BIN(binary, or base 2)`, `OCT(octal, or base 8)`, `DEC(decimal, or base 10)`, `HEX(hexadecimal, or base 16)`. For floating point numbers, this parameter specifies the number of decimal places to use. For example-

* `Serial.print(78, BIN)` gives "1001110" +
* `Serial.print(78, OCT)` gives "116" +
* `Serial.print(78, DEC)` gives "78" +
* `Serial.print(78, HEX)` gives "4E" +
* `Serial.print(1.23456, 0)` gives "1" +
* `Serial.print(1.23456, 2)` gives "1.23" +
* `Serial.print(1.23456, 4)` gives "1.2346"

You can pass flash-memory based strings to Serial.print() by wrapping them with link:../../../../variables/utilities/progmem[F()]. For example:

`Serial.print(F(“Hello World”))`

To send data without conversion to its representation as characters, use link:../write[Serial.write()].
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`Serial.print(val)` +
`Serial.print(val, format)`


[float]
=== Parameters
`val`: the value to print - any data type

[float]
=== Returns
`size_t`: `print()` returns the number of bytes written, though reading that number is optional.

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄


[source,arduino]
----
/*
Uses a for loop to print numbers in various formats.
*/
void setup() {
  Serial.begin(9600);      // open the serial port at 9600 bps:
}

void loop() {
  // print labels
  Serial.print("NO FORMAT");  // prints a label
  Serial.print("\t");      // prints a tab

  Serial.print("DEC");
  Serial.print("\t");

  Serial.print("HEX");
  Serial.print("\t");

  Serial.print("OCT");
  Serial.print("\t");

  Serial.print("BIN");
  Serial.println();        // carriage return after the last label

  for (int x = 0; x < 64; x++) { // only part of the ASCII chart, change to suit
    // print it out in many formats:
    Serial.print(x);       // print as an ASCII-encoded decimal - same as "DEC"
    Serial.print("\t\t");  // prints two tabs to accomodate the label lenght

    Serial.print(x, DEC);  // print as an ASCII-encoded decimal
    Serial.print("\t");    // prints a tab

    Serial.print(x, HEX);  // print as an ASCII-encoded hexadecimal
    Serial.print("\t");    // prints a tab

    Serial.print(x, OCT);  // print as an ASCII-encoded octal
    Serial.print("\t");    // prints a tab

    Serial.println(x, BIN);  // print as an ASCII-encoded binary
    // then adds the carriage return with "println"
    delay(200);            // delay 200 milliseconds
  }
  Serial.println();        // prints another carriage return
}
----
[%hardbreaks]

[float]
=== Notes and Warnings
As of version 1.0, serial transmission is asynchronous; `Serial.print()` will return before any characters are transmitted.

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="language"]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../begin[begin()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../end[end()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../available[available()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../read[read()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../peek[peek()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../flush[flush()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../println[println()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../write[write()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../serialevent[SerialEvent()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:https://www.arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/Memory[Memory]

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Correct/update information about available serial ports for each board
The Serial reference pages contained large amounts of incorrect or extremely outdated information about which serial ports were available for each board.

- Add a table to the Serial reference homepage which lists the available ports for each board. Previously, this was done in a verbose manner that does not lend itself to the ever increasing information that must be conveyed on this topic as new boards are added.
- Rather than document syntax for each of the list of possible serial objects, only document each function signature and then point the reader to the list of available ports for each board in the homepage.
- Fix miscellaneous incorrect or outdated information about ports throughout the Serial reference pages.

Language/Functions/Communication/Serial/print.adoc, after:

---
title: Serial.print()
---




= print()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Prints data to the serial port as human-readable ASCII text. This command can take many forms. Numbers are printed using an ASCII character for each digit. Floats are similarly printed as ASCII digits, defaulting to two decimal places. Bytes are sent as a single character. Characters and strings are sent as is. For example-

* `Serial.print(78)` gives "78" +
* `Serial.print(1.23456)` gives "1.23" +
* `Serial.print('N')` gives "N" +
* `Serial.print("Hello world.")` gives "Hello world." 


An optional second parameter specifies the base (format) to use; permitted values are `BIN(binary, or base 2)`, `OCT(octal, or base 8)`, `DEC(decimal, or base 10)`, `HEX(hexadecimal, or base 16)`. For floating point numbers, this parameter specifies the number of decimal places to use. For example-

* `Serial.print(78, BIN)` gives "1001110" +
* `Serial.print(78, OCT)` gives "116" +
* `Serial.print(78, DEC)` gives "78" +
* `Serial.print(78, HEX)` gives "4E" +
* `Serial.print(1.23456, 0)` gives "1" +
* `Serial.print(1.23456, 2)` gives "1.23" +
* `Serial.print(1.23456, 4)` gives "1.2346"

You can pass flash-memory based strings to Serial.print() by wrapping them with link:../../../../variables/utilities/progmem[F()]. For example:

`Serial.print(F(“Hello World”))`

To send data without conversion to its representation as characters, use link:../write[Serial.write()].
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`_Serial_.print(val)` +
`_Serial_.print(val, format)`


[float]
=== Parameters
`_Serial_`: serial port object. See the list of available serial ports for each board on the link:../../serial[Serial main page]. +
`val`: the value to print - any data type

[float]
=== Returns
`size_t`: `print()` returns the number of bytes written, though reading that number is optional.

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄


[source,arduino]
----
/*
Uses a for loop to print numbers in various formats.
*/
void setup() {
  Serial.begin(9600);      // open the serial port at 9600 bps:
}

void loop() {
  // print labels
  Serial.print("NO FORMAT");  // prints a label
  Serial.print("\t");      // prints a tab

  Serial.print("DEC");
  Serial.print("\t");

  Serial.print("HEX");
  Serial.print("\t");

  Serial.print("OCT");
  Serial.print("\t");

  Serial.print("BIN");
  Serial.println();        // carriage return after the last label

  for (int x = 0; x < 64; x++) { // only part of the ASCII chart, change to suit
    // print it out in many formats:
    Serial.print(x);       // print as an ASCII-encoded decimal - same as "DEC"
    Serial.print("\t\t");  // prints two tabs to accomodate the label lenght

    Serial.print(x, DEC);  // print as an ASCII-encoded decimal
    Serial.print("\t");    // prints a tab

    Serial.print(x, HEX);  // print as an ASCII-encoded hexadecimal
    Serial.print("\t");    // prints a tab

    Serial.print(x, OCT);  // print as an ASCII-encoded octal
    Serial.print("\t");    // prints a tab

    Serial.println(x, BIN);  // print as an ASCII-encoded binary
    // then adds the carriage return with "println"
    delay(200);            // delay 200 milliseconds
  }
  Serial.println();        // prints another carriage return
}
----
[%hardbreaks]

[float]
=== Notes and Warnings
As of version 1.0, serial transmission is asynchronous; `Serial.print()` will return before any characters are transmitted.

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="language"]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../begin[begin()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../end[end()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../available[available()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../read[read()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../peek[peek()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../flush[flush()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../println[println()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../write[write()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../serialevent[SerialEvent()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:https://www.arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/Memory[Memory]

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS
