Language/Functions/Communication/Serial/readBytesUntil.adoc, before:

---
title: Serial.readBytesUntil()
---




= Serial.readBytesUntil()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Serial.readBytesUntil() reads characters from the serial buffer into an array. The function terminates if the terminator character is detected, the determined length has been read, or it times out (see link:../settimeout[Serial.setTimeout()]). The function returns the characters up to the last character before the supplied terminator. The terminator itself is not returned in the buffer.

`Serial.readBytesUntil()` returns the number of characters read into the buffer. A 0 means no valid data was found.

`Serial.readBytesUntil()` inherits from the link:../../stream[Stream] utility class.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`Serial.readBytesUntil(character, buffer, length)`


[float]
=== Parameters
`character` : the character to search for (`char`)

`buffer`: the buffer to store the bytes in (`char[]` or `byte[]`)

`length` : the number of bytes to read (`int`)

[float]
=== Returns
`size_t`

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="language"]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../../stream[Stream]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../../stream/streamreadbytesuntil[Stream.readByteUntil()]

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Correct/update information about available serial ports for each board
The Serial reference pages contained large amounts of incorrect or extremely outdated information about which serial ports were available for each board.

- Add a table to the Serial reference homepage which lists the available ports for each board. Previously, this was done in a verbose manner that does not lend itself to the ever increasing information that must be conveyed on this topic as new boards are added.
- Rather than document syntax for each of the list of possible serial objects, only document each function signature and then point the reader to the list of available ports for each board in the homepage.
- Fix miscellaneous incorrect or outdated information about ports throughout the Serial reference pages.

Language/Functions/Communication/Serial/readBytesUntil.adoc, after:

---
title: Serial.readBytesUntil()
---




= Serial.readBytesUntil()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Serial.readBytesUntil() reads characters from the serial buffer into an array. The function terminates if the terminator character is detected, the determined length has been read, or it times out (see link:../settimeout[Serial.setTimeout()]). The function returns the characters up to the last character before the supplied terminator. The terminator itself is not returned in the buffer.

`Serial.readBytesUntil()` returns the number of characters read into the buffer. A 0 means no valid data was found.

`Serial.readBytesUntil()` inherits from the link:../../stream[Stream] utility class.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`_Serial_.readBytesUntil(character, buffer, length)`


[float]
=== Parameters
`_Serial_`: serial port object. See the list of available serial ports for each board on the link:../../serial[Serial main page].

`character` : the character to search for (`char`)

`buffer`: the buffer to store the bytes in (`char[]` or `byte[]`)

`length` : the number of bytes to read (`int`)

[float]
=== Returns
`size_t`

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="language"]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../../stream[Stream]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../../stream/streamreadbytesuntil[Stream.readByteUntil()]

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS
