Language/Functions/Communication/Serial/readBytes.adoc, before:

---
title: Serial.readBytes()
---




= Serial.readBytes()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
`Serial.readBytes()` reads characters from the serial port into a buffer. The function terminates if the determined length has been read, or it times out (see link:../settimeout[Serial.setTimeout()]).

`Serial.readBytes()` returns the number of characters placed in the buffer. A 0 means no valid data was found.

`Serial.readBytes()` inherits from the link:../../stream[Stream] utility class.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`_Serial_.readBytes(buffer, length)`


[float]
=== Parameters
`_Serial_`: serial port object. See the list of available serial ports for each board on the link:../../serial[Serial main page].

`buffer`: the buffer to store the bytes in (`char[]` or `byte[]`)

`length` : the number of bytes to read (`int`)

[float]
=== Returns
The number of bytes placed in the buffer (`size_t`)

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="language"]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../../stream[stream]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../../stream/streamreadbytes[stream.readBytes()]

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Use standard format for Syntax, Parameters, and Returns sections
I have faithfully followed the standard established by the reference sample. The exception is in documenting the return type, since the reference sample does not provide any guidance on this subject. In this, I attempted to be consistent with the standard established for documenting parameter types ("Allowed data types:" for parameters, "Data type:" for return type).

Language/Functions/Communication/Serial/readBytes.adoc, after:

---
title: Serial.readBytes()
---




= Serial.readBytes()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
`Serial.readBytes()` reads characters from the serial port into a buffer. The function terminates if the determined length has been read, or it times out (see link:../settimeout[Serial.setTimeout()]).

`Serial.readBytes()` returns the number of characters placed in the buffer. A 0 means no valid data was found.

`Serial.readBytes()` inherits from the link:../../stream[Stream] utility class.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`_Serial_.readBytes(buffer, length)`


[float]
=== Parameters
`_Serial_`: serial port object. See the list of available serial ports for each board on the link:../../serial[Serial main page]. +
`buffer`: the buffer to store the bytes in. Allowed data types: or array of `char` or `byte`s. +
`length`: the number of bytes to read. Allowed data types: `int`.


[float]
=== Returns
The number of bytes placed in the buffer. Data type: `size_t`.

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="language"]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../../stream[stream]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../../stream/streamreadbytes[stream.readBytes()]

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS
