Language/Functions/Communication/Serial/serialEvent.adoc, before:

---
title: Serial.serialEvent()
---




= serialEvent()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Called when data is available. Use `Serial.read()` to capture this data.

NB : Currently, `serialEvent()` is not compatible with the Esplora, Leonardo, or Micro
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax

[source,arduino]
----
void serialEvent(){
//statements
}
----
For boards with additional serial ports (see the list of available serial ports for each board on the link:../../serial[Serial main page]):
[source,arduino]
----
void serialEvent1(){
//statements
}

void serialEvent2(){
//statements
}

void serialEvent3(){
//statements
}
----

[float]
=== Parameters
`statements`: any valid statements

[float]
=== Returns
Nothing

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="example"]
* #EXAMPLE# http://arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/SerialEvent[SerialEvent Tutorial]

[role="language"]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../begin[begin()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../end[end()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../available[available()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../read[read()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../peek[peek()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../flush[flush()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../print[print()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../println[println()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../write[write()]

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Update serialEvent() hardware support documentation
serialEvent*() doesn't work on the SAMD and SAM boards.

Strangely, the ARC32 core (101) has a call to serialEvent(), but not one to serialEvent1(). I don't own a 101 so I can't verify any level of support on that board.

Language/Functions/Communication/Serial/serialEvent.adoc, after:

---
title: Serial.serialEvent()
---




= serialEvent()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Called when data is available. Use `Serial.read()` to capture this data.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax

[source,arduino]
----
void serialEvent(){
//statements
}
----
For boards with additional serial ports (see the list of available serial ports for each board on the link:../../serial[Serial main page]):
[source,arduino]
----
void serialEvent1(){
//statements
}

void serialEvent2(){
//statements
}

void serialEvent3(){
//statements
}
----

[float]
=== Parameters
`statements`: any valid statements

[float]
=== Returns
Nothing

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS


// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Notes and Warnings
`serialEvent()` doesn't work on the Leonardo or Micro.

`serialEvent()` and `serialEvent1()` don't work on the Arduino SAMD Boards

`serialEvent()`, `serialEvent1()``serialEvent2()`, and `serialEvent3()`  don't work on the Arduino Due.
[%hardbreaks]

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="example"]
* #EXAMPLE# http://arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/SerialEvent[SerialEvent Tutorial]

[role="language"]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../begin[begin()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../end[end()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../available[available()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../read[read()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../peek[peek()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../flush[flush()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../print[print()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../println[println()]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../write[write()]

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS
