Language/Functions/Communication/Serial/write.adoc, before:

---
title: Serial.write()
---

= write()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Writes binary data to the serial port. This data is sent as a byte or series of bytes; to send the characters representing the digits of a number use the link:../print[print()] function instead.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`Serial.write(val)` +
`Serial.write(str)` +
`Serial.write(buf, len)`

_Arduino Mega also supports:_

`Serial1`, `Serial2`, `Serial3` (in place of `Serial`)


[float]
=== Parameters
`val`: a value to send as a single byte

`str`: a string to send as a series of bytes

`buf`: an array to send as a series of bytes

`len`: the number of bytes to be sent from the array

[float]
=== Returns
`size_t`

`write()` will return the number of bytes written, though reading that number is optional

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--
[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄


[source,arduino]
----
void setup(){
  Serial.begin(9600);
}

void loop(){
  Serial.write(45); // send a byte with the value 45

   int bytesSent = Serial.write(“hello”); //send the string “hello” and return the length of the string.
}
----

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Correct/update information about available serial ports for each board
The Serial reference pages contained large amounts of incorrect or extremely outdated information about which serial ports were available for each board.

- Add a table to the Serial reference homepage which lists the available ports for each board. Previously, this was done in a verbose manner that does not lend itself to the ever increasing information that must be conveyed on this topic as new boards are added.
- Rather than document syntax for each of the list of possible serial objects, only document each function signature and then point the reader to the list of available ports for each board in the homepage.
- Fix miscellaneous incorrect or outdated information about ports throughout the Serial reference pages.

Language/Functions/Communication/Serial/write.adoc, after:

---
title: Serial.write()
---

= write()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Writes binary data to the serial port. This data is sent as a byte or series of bytes; to send the characters representing the digits of a number use the link:../print[print()] function instead.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`_Serial_.write(val)` +
`_Serial_.write(str)` +
`_Serial_.write(buf, len)`


[float]
=== Parameters
`_Serial_`: serial port object. See the list of available serial ports for each board on the link:../../serial[Serial main page].

`val`: a value to send as a single byte

`str`: a string to send as a series of bytes

`buf`: an array to send as a series of bytes

`len`: the number of bytes to be sent from the array

[float]
=== Returns
`size_t`

`write()` will return the number of bytes written, though reading that number is optional

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--
[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄


[source,arduino]
----
void setup(){
  Serial.begin(9600);
}

void loop(){
  Serial.write(45); // send a byte with the value 45

   int bytesSent = Serial.write(“hello”); //send the string “hello” and return the length of the string.
}
----

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS
