Language/Functions/Advanced IO/pulseIn.adoc, before:

---
title: pulseIn()
categories: [ "Functions" ]
subCategories: [ "Advanced I/O" ]
---





= pulseIn()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Reads a pulse (either HIGH or LOW) on a pin. For example, if *value* is *HIGH*, `pulseIn()` waits for the pin to go *HIGH*, starts timing, then waits for the pin to go *LOW* and stops timing. Returns the length of the pulse in microseconds. Gives up and returns 0 if no pulse starts within a specified time out.

The timing of this function has been determined empirically and will probably show errors in longer pulses. Works on pulses from 10 microseconds to 3 minutes in length.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`pulseIn(pin, value)`

`pulseIn(pin, value, timeout)`

[float]
=== Parameters
`pin`: the number of the pin on which you want to read the pulse. (int)

`value`: type of pulse to read: either link:../../../variables/constants/constants/[HIGH] or link:../../../variables/constants/constants/[LOW]. (int)

`timeout` (optional): the number of microseconds to wait for the pulse to start; default is one second (unsigned long)
[float]
=== Returns
the length of the pulse (in microseconds) or 0 if no pulse started before the timeout (unsigned long)

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄
The example calculated the time duration of a pulse on pin 7.

[source,arduino]
----
int pin = 7;
unsigned long duration;

void setup()
{
  pinMode(pin, INPUT);
}

void loop()
{
  duration = pulseIn(pin, HIGH);
}
----
[%hardbreaks]

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Use same description as pulseInLong() for pulseIn()
pulseIn() and pulseInLong() work the same and thus the descriptions should also be the same.

- Correct explanation of how the timeout works. The timeout applies to the entire duration of the function call, not only to the start of the pulse.
- Consistent formatting.

Language/Functions/Advanced IO/pulseIn.adoc, after:

---
title: pulseIn()
categories: [ "Functions" ]
subCategories: [ "Advanced I/O" ]
---





= pulseIn()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Reads a pulse (either `HIGH` or `LOW`) on a pin. For example, if `value` is `HIGH`, `pulseIn()` waits for the pin to go from `LOW` to `HIGH`, starts timing, then waits for the pin to go `LOW` and stops timing. Returns the length of the pulse in microseconds or gives up and returns 0 if no complete pulse was received within the timeout.

The timing of this function has been determined empirically and will probably show errors in longer pulses. Works on pulses from 10 microseconds to 3 minutes in length.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`pulseIn(pin, value)`

`pulseIn(pin, value, timeout)`

[float]
=== Parameters
`pin`: the number of the pin on which you want to read the pulse. (int)

`value`: type of pulse to read: either link:../../../variables/constants/constants/[HIGH] or link:../../../variables/constants/constants/[LOW]. (int)

`timeout` (optional): the number of microseconds to wait for the pulse to start; default is one second (unsigned long)
[float]
=== Returns
the length of the pulse (in microseconds) or 0 if no pulse started before the timeout (unsigned long)

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄
The example calculated the time duration of a pulse on pin 7.

[source,arduino]
----
int pin = 7;
unsigned long duration;

void setup()
{
  pinMode(pin, INPUT);
}

void loop()
{
  duration = pulseIn(pin, HIGH);
}
----
[%hardbreaks]

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS
