Language/Functions/Advanced IO/pulseInLong.adoc, before:

---
title: pulseInLong()
categories: [ "Functions" ]
subCategories: [ "Advanced I/O" ]
---





= pulseInLong()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
`pulseInLong()` is an alternative to link:../pulsein[pulseIn()] which is better at handling long pulse and interrupt affected scenarios.

Reads a pulse (either `HIGH` or `LOW`) on a pin. For example, if `value` is `HIGH`, `pulseInLong()` waits for the pin to go from `LOW` to `HIGH`, starts timing, then waits for the pin to go `LOW` and stops timing. Returns the length of the pulse in microseconds or gives up and returns 0 if no complete pulse was received within the timeout.

The timing of this function has been determined empirically and will probably show errors in shorter pulses. Works on pulses from 10 microseconds to 3 minutes in length. This routine can be used only if interrupts are activated. Furthermore the highest resolution is obtained with large intervals.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`pulseInLong(pin, value)`

`pulseInLong(pin, value, timeout)`

[float]
=== Parameters
`pin`: the number of the pin on which you want to read the pulse. (int)

`value`: type of pulse to read: either link:../../../variables/constants/constants/[HIGH] or link:../../../variables/constants/constants/[LOW]. (int)

`timeout` (optional): the number of microseconds to wait for the pulse to start; default is one second (unsigned long)
[float]
=== Returns
the length of the pulse (in microseconds) or 0 if no pulse started before the timeout (unsigned long)

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄
The example prints the time duration of a pulse on pin 7.

[source,arduino]
----
int pin = 7;
unsigned long duration;

void setup() {
  Serial.begin(9600);
  pinMode(pin, INPUT);
}

void loop() {
  duration = pulseInLong(pin, HIGH);
  Serial.println(duration);
}
----
[%hardbreaks]

[float]
=== Notes and Warnings
This function relies on micros() so cannot be used in link:../../interrupts/nointerrupts[noInterrupts()] context.

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Use standard format for Syntax, Parameters, and Returns sections
I have faithfully followed the standard established by the reference sample. The exception is in documenting the return type, since the reference sample does not provide any guidance on this subject. In this, I attempted to be consistent with the standard established for documenting parameter types ("Allowed data types:" for parameters, "Data type:" for return type).

Language/Functions/Advanced IO/pulseInLong.adoc, after:

---
title: pulseInLong()
categories: [ "Functions" ]
subCategories: [ "Advanced I/O" ]
---





= pulseInLong()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
`pulseInLong()` is an alternative to link:../pulsein[pulseIn()] which is better at handling long pulse and interrupt affected scenarios.

Reads a pulse (either `HIGH` or `LOW`) on a pin. For example, if `value` is `HIGH`, `pulseInLong()` waits for the pin to go from `LOW` to `HIGH`, starts timing, then waits for the pin to go `LOW` and stops timing. Returns the length of the pulse in microseconds or gives up and returns 0 if no complete pulse was received within the timeout.

The timing of this function has been determined empirically and will probably show errors in shorter pulses. Works on pulses from 10 microseconds to 3 minutes in length. This routine can be used only if interrupts are activated. Furthermore the highest resolution is obtained with large intervals.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`pulseInLong(pin, value)` +
`pulseInLong(pin, value, timeout)`


[float]
=== Parameters
`pin`: the number of the pin on which you want to read the pulse. Allowed data types: `int`. +
`value`: type of pulse to read: either link:../../../variables/constants/constants/[HIGH] or link:../../../variables/constants/constants/[LOW]. Allowed data types: `int`. +
`timeout` (optional): the number of microseconds to wait for the pulse to start; default is one second. Allowed data types: `unsigned long`.


[float]
=== Returns
The length of the pulse (in microseconds) or 0 if no pulse started before the timeout. Data type: `unsigned long`.

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄
The example prints the time duration of a pulse on pin 7.

[source,arduino]
----
int pin = 7;
unsigned long duration;

void setup() {
  Serial.begin(9600);
  pinMode(pin, INPUT);
}

void loop() {
  duration = pulseInLong(pin, HIGH);
  Serial.println(duration);
}
----
[%hardbreaks]

[float]
=== Notes and Warnings
This function relies on micros() so cannot be used in link:../../interrupts/nointerrupts[noInterrupts()] context.

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS
