Language/Functions/Advanced IO/shiftOut.adoc, before:

---
title: shiftOut()
categories: [ "Functions" ]
subCategories: [ "Advanced I/O" ]
---

= shiftOut()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Shifts out a byte of data one bit at a time. Starts from either the most (i.e. the leftmost) or least (rightmost) significant bit. Each bit is written in turn to a data pin, after which a clock pin is pulsed (taken high, then low) to indicate that the bit is available.

Note- if you're interfacing with a device that's clocked by rising edges, you'll need to make sure that the clock pin is low before the call to `shiftOut()`, e.g. with a call to `digitalWrite(clockPin, LOW)`.

This is a software implementation; see also the https://www.arduino.cc/en/Reference/SPI[SPI library], which provides a hardware implementation that is faster but works only on specific pins.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`shiftOut(dataPin, clockPin, bitOrder, value)`


[float]
=== Parameters
`dataPin`: the pin on which to output each bit (int)

`clockPin`: the pin to toggle once the dataPin has been set to the correct value (int)

`bitOrder`: which order to shift out the bits; either MSBFIRST or LSBFIRST.
(Most Significant Bit First, or, Least Significant Bit First)

`value`: the data to shift out. (byte)

[float]
=== Returns
Nothing

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄
For accompanying circuit, see the https://arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/ShiftOut[tutorial on controlling a 74HC595 shift register].

[source,arduino]
----
//**************************************************************//
//  Name    : shiftOutCode, Hello World                         //
//  Author  : Carlyn Maw,Tom Igoe                               //
//  Date    : 25 Oct, 2006                                      //
//  Version : 1.0                                               //
//  Notes   : Code for using a 74HC595 Shift Register           //
//          : to count from 0 to 255                            //
//****************************************************************

//Pin connected to ST_CP of 74HC595
int latchPin = 8;
//Pin connected to SH_CP of 74HC595
int clockPin = 12;
////Pin connected to DS of 74HC595
int dataPin = 11;

void setup() {
  //set pins to output because they are addressed in the main loop
  pinMode(latchPin, OUTPUT);
  pinMode(clockPin, OUTPUT);
  pinMode(dataPin, OUTPUT);
}

void loop() {
  //count up routine
  for (int j = 0; j < 256; j++) {
    //ground latchPin and hold low for as long as you are transmitting
    digitalWrite(latchPin, LOW);
    shiftOut(dataPin, clockPin, LSBFIRST, j);
    //return the latch pin high to signal chip that it
    //no longer needs to listen for information
    digitalWrite(latchPin, HIGH);
    delay(1000);
  }
}
----
[%hardbreaks]

[float]
=== Notes and Warnings
The dataPin and clockPin must already be configured as outputs by a call to link:../../digital-io/pinmode[pinMode()].

shiftOut is currently written to output 1 byte (8 bits) so it requires a two step operation to output values larger than 255.
[source,arduino]
----
// Do this for MSBFIRST serial
int data = 500;
// shift out highbyte
shiftOut(dataPin, clock, MSBFIRST, (data >> 8));
// shift out lowbyte
shiftOut(dataPin, clock, MSBFIRST, data);

// Or do this for LSBFIRST serial
data = 500;
// shift out lowbyte
shiftOut(dataPin, clock, LSBFIRST, data);
// shift out highbyte
shiftOut(dataPin, clock, LSBFIRST, (data >> 8));
----
[%hardbreaks]

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Use standard format for Syntax, Parameters, and Returns sections
I have faithfully followed the standard established by the reference sample. The exception is in documenting the return type, since the reference sample does not provide any guidance on this subject. In this, I attempted to be consistent with the standard established for documenting parameter types ("Allowed data types:" for parameters, "Data type:" for return type).

Language/Functions/Advanced IO/shiftOut.adoc, after:

---
title: shiftOut()
categories: [ "Functions" ]
subCategories: [ "Advanced I/O" ]
---

= shiftOut()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Shifts out a byte of data one bit at a time. Starts from either the most (i.e. the leftmost) or least (rightmost) significant bit. Each bit is written in turn to a data pin, after which a clock pin is pulsed (taken high, then low) to indicate that the bit is available.

Note- if you're interfacing with a device that's clocked by rising edges, you'll need to make sure that the clock pin is low before the call to `shiftOut()`, e.g. with a call to `digitalWrite(clockPin, LOW)`.

This is a software implementation; see also the https://www.arduino.cc/en/Reference/SPI[SPI library], which provides a hardware implementation that is faster but works only on specific pins.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`shiftOut(dataPin, clockPin, bitOrder, value)`


[float]
=== Parameters
`dataPin`: the pin on which to output each bit. Allowed data types: `int`. +
`clockPin`: the pin to toggle once the dataPin has been set to the correct value. Allowed data types: `int`. +
`bitOrder`: which order to shift out the bits; either MSBFIRST or LSBFIRST. (Most Significant Bit First, or, Least Significant Bit First). +
`value`: the data to shift out. Allowed data types: `byte`.


[float]
=== Returns
Nothing

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Example Code
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄
For accompanying circuit, see the https://arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/ShiftOut[tutorial on controlling a 74HC595 shift register].

[source,arduino]
----
//**************************************************************//
//  Name    : shiftOutCode, Hello World                         //
//  Author  : Carlyn Maw,Tom Igoe                               //
//  Date    : 25 Oct, 2006                                      //
//  Version : 1.0                                               //
//  Notes   : Code for using a 74HC595 Shift Register           //
//          : to count from 0 to 255                            //
//****************************************************************

//Pin connected to ST_CP of 74HC595
int latchPin = 8;
//Pin connected to SH_CP of 74HC595
int clockPin = 12;
////Pin connected to DS of 74HC595
int dataPin = 11;

void setup() {
  //set pins to output because they are addressed in the main loop
  pinMode(latchPin, OUTPUT);
  pinMode(clockPin, OUTPUT);
  pinMode(dataPin, OUTPUT);
}

void loop() {
  //count up routine
  for (int j = 0; j < 256; j++) {
    //ground latchPin and hold low for as long as you are transmitting
    digitalWrite(latchPin, LOW);
    shiftOut(dataPin, clockPin, LSBFIRST, j);
    //return the latch pin high to signal chip that it
    //no longer needs to listen for information
    digitalWrite(latchPin, HIGH);
    delay(1000);
  }
}
----
[%hardbreaks]

[float]
=== Notes and Warnings
The dataPin and clockPin must already be configured as outputs by a call to link:../../digital-io/pinmode[pinMode()].

shiftOut is currently written to output 1 byte (8 bits) so it requires a two step operation to output values larger than 255.
[source,arduino]
----
// Do this for MSBFIRST serial
int data = 500;
// shift out highbyte
shiftOut(dataPin, clock, MSBFIRST, (data >> 8));
// shift out lowbyte
shiftOut(dataPin, clock, MSBFIRST, data);

// Or do this for LSBFIRST serial
data = 500;
// shift out lowbyte
shiftOut(dataPin, clock, LSBFIRST, data);
// shift out highbyte
shiftOut(dataPin, clock, LSBFIRST, (data >> 8));
----
[%hardbreaks]

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS
