Language/Functions/Advanced IO/tone.adoc, before:

---
title: tone()
categories: [ "Functions" ]
subCategories: [ "Advanced I/O" ]
---





= tone()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Generates a square wave of the specified frequency (and 50% duty cycle) on a pin. A duration can be specified, otherwise the wave continues until a call to link:../noTone[noTone()]. The pin can be connected to a piezo buzzer or other speaker to play tones.

Only one tone can be generated at a time. If a tone is already playing on a different pin, the call to tone() will have no effect. If the tone is playing on the same pin, the call will set its frequency.

Use of the `tone()` function will interfere with PWM output on pins 3 and 11 (on boards other than the Mega).

It is not possible to generate tones lower than 31Hz. For technical details, see https://github.com/bhagman/Tone#ugly-details[Brett Hagman's notes].
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`tone(pin, frequency)`

`tone(pin, frequency, duration)`
[%hardbreaks]

[float]
=== Parameters
`pin`: the pin on which to generate the tone

`frequency`: the frequency of the tone in hertz - `unsigned int`

`duration`: the duration of the tone in milliseconds (optional) - `unsigned long`
[%hardbreaks]

[float]
=== Returns
Nothing

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Notes and Warnings
If you want to play different pitches on multiple pins, you need to call `noTone()` on one pin before calling `tone()` on the next pin.
[%hardbreaks]

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="language"]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../../analog-io/analogwrite[analogWrite()]

[role="example"]

* #EXAMPLE# http://arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/Tone[Tone Melody^]
* #EXAMPLE# http://arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/tonePitchFollower[Pitch Follower^]
* #EXAMPLE# http://arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/Tone3[Tone Keyboard^]
* #EXAMPLE# http://arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/Tone4[Tone Multiple^]
* #EXAMPLE# http://arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/PWM[PWM^]

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Use standard format for Syntax, Parameters, and Returns sections
I have faithfully followed the standard established by the reference sample. The exception is in documenting the return type, since the reference sample does not provide any guidance on this subject. In this, I attempted to be consistent with the standard established for documenting parameter types ("Allowed data types:" for parameters, "Data type:" for return type).

Language/Functions/Advanced IO/tone.adoc, after:

---
title: tone()
categories: [ "Functions" ]
subCategories: [ "Advanced I/O" ]
---





= tone()


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Description
Generates a square wave of the specified frequency (and 50% duty cycle) on a pin. A duration can be specified, otherwise the wave continues until a call to link:../noTone[noTone()]. The pin can be connected to a piezo buzzer or other speaker to play tones.

Only one tone can be generated at a time. If a tone is already playing on a different pin, the call to tone() will have no effect. If the tone is playing on the same pin, the call will set its frequency.

Use of the `tone()` function will interfere with PWM output on pins 3 and 11 (on boards other than the Mega).

It is not possible to generate tones lower than 31Hz. For technical details, see https://github.com/bhagman/Tone#ugly-details[Brett Hagman's notes].
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Syntax
`tone(pin, frequency)` +
`tone(pin, frequency, duration)`


[float]
=== Parameters
`pin`: the pin on which to generate the tone. +
`frequency`: the frequency of the tone in hertz. Allowed data types: `unsigned int`. +
`duration`: the duration of the tone in milliseconds (optional). Allowed data types: `unsigned long`.


[float]
=== Returns
Nothing

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Notes and Warnings
If you want to play different pitches on multiple pins, you need to call `noTone()` on one pin before calling `tone()` on the next pin.
[%hardbreaks]

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== See also

[role="language"]
* #LANGUAGE# link:../../analog-io/analogwrite[analogWrite()]

[role="example"]

* #EXAMPLE# http://arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/Tone[Tone Melody^]
* #EXAMPLE# http://arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/tonePitchFollower[Pitch Follower^]
* #EXAMPLE# http://arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/Tone3[Tone Keyboard^]
* #EXAMPLE# http://arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/Tone4[Tone Multiple^]
* #EXAMPLE# http://arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/PWM[PWM^]

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS
